1m-2NT Invitational: When the 1m-2NT Invitational convention is turned on, a jump to 2NT in response to partner's one-of-a-minor opening bid shows 10-12 High-Card Points and a balanced hand with no four-card major. When the 1m-2NT Invitational convention is turned off, a jump to 2NT in response to partner's one-of-a-minor opening bid shows 13-15 High-Card Points and a balanced hand with no four-card major.

1NT Range: You can, if you wish, play the 1NT opening bid as showing other than 16-18 High-Card Points; you may set the lower limit anywhere from 12 Points to 16 Points. The upper limit will in all cases be 2 points higher than the lower limit, giving a three-point range. For example, 16, 17, 18 is a three-point range; 12, 13, 14 is another three-point range.

1NT-2S Minor Signoff: When partner opens 1NT, and you and partner have 23 or fewer joint Total Points, and you have six or more clubs or diamonds, you may bid 2S as a minor-suit sign-off. Partner will bid 3C, and you may pass or correct to 3D.

1NT-3C Puppet Stayman/3D 5-5 Forcing: When you play this convention, your 3C response to partner's 1NT opening is Puppet Stayman, and your 3D response to partner's 1NT opening shows a game-forcing hand with five or more clubs and five or more diamonds. Please see Puppet Stayman 3C after 1NT and 1NT-3m 5-5 Minor Bids for more information.

1NT-3m 5-5 Minor Bids: When you play this convention, your 3C and 3D bids in response to partner's 1NT opening show at least five cards in both minors. 1NT-3C shows a weak hand with five or more clubs and five or more diamonds; partner will pass with better clubs than diamonds, or bid 3D with better diamonds than clubs. 1NT-3D shows a game-forcing hand with five or more clubs and five or more diamonds; partner has many options over this bid. Partner may bid 3NT with sufficient stoppers in both majors and no good minor-suit fit; or 3H to set clubs as trump or 3S to set diamonds as trump, after which you may further describe your hand.

1NT-3M 5-5 Major Bids: When you play this convention, your 3H and 3S bids in response to partner's 1NT opening show at least five cards in both majors. 1NT-3H shows an invitational hand with five or more hearts and five or more spades; partner will pass, bid 3S to play, bid 4H to play, or bid 4S to play. 1NT-3S shows a game-forcing hand with five or more hearts and five or more spades; partner will bid 4H to play or 4S to play. If you are playing this convention, then the bidding sequence 1NT-2H-2S-3H now indicates five or more hearts, five or more spades, and slam interest; you would have bid 3S directly in response to 1NT without slam interest.

2C-2H Double Negative: When you are playing this convention, your 2H response to partner's 2C opening bid shows 0-3 High-Card Points with no king; your 2D response to partner's 2C opening bid shows 4 or more High-Card Points (or a king); and your 2NT response to partner's 2C opening bid shows 8 or more High-Card Points and 5 or more hearts.

2NT-3S Relays: After a 2NT Opening (or a 2C opening and a 2NT rebid, if playing Weak Two-Bids), the 2NT-3S Relays convention allows responder to show both single-suited minor hands and hands containing both minors. A 3S response to 2NT is a relay bid and forces opener to rebid 3NT, after which responder will clarify his hand type. After 2NT-3S-3NT: a bid of 4C or 4D shows a single-suited hand with the bid minor and suggests slam interest; a bid of 4H or 4S shows a hand with both minors (at least 5-4) and a singleton or void in the bid suit; a bid of 4NT is non-forcing but shows a hand with 4-4 or 5-4 in the minors, no singleton or void in the majors, and values invitational to slam; and a bid of 5NT is forcing and shows at least 5-5 in the minors, asking partner to bid his better minor at the six level.

2NT Range: You may play the 2NT opening bid as showing a two-point or three-point range, with the lower limit being at least 19 High-Card Points and the upper limit being at most 24 High-Card Points. For example, you may play that the 2NT opening bid shows 20-21 High-Card Points, a two-point range; for another example, you may play that the 2NT opening bid shows 22-24 High-Card Points, a three-point range.

Allow 5-4-2-2 1NT: When this convention is turned on, you may open 1NT with two doubletons, a four-card suit, and a five-card suit. When this convention is turned off, you may only open 1NT with hands with 4-3-3-3, 4-4-3-2, or 5-3-3-2 shape.

Allow 5-card Major 1NT: When this convention is turned on, you may open 1NT with a five-card major if the rest of your hand otherwise meets the requirements for a 1NT opening. When this convention is turned off, you instead open such hands 1H or 1S.

Allow 6-card Minor 1NT: When this convention is turned on, you may open 1NT with a six-card minor if the rest of your hand otherwise meets the requirements for a 1NT opening. When this convention is turned off, you instead open such hands 1C or 1D.

Allow Singleton Ace or King 1NT: When this convention is turned on, you may open 1NT with a singleton Ace or King if the rest of your hand otherwise meets the requirements for a 1NT opening. When this convention is turned off, you instead open such hands 1 of a suit.

Artificial 2C/2D Raises after a Double: Playing Artificial 2C/2D Raises after a Double, 2C and 2D are constructive raises in partner's suit and two of partner's suit is a preemptive bid with a weak hand and only three-card support. With three-card support and less than 7 high-card points as well as less than 8 total points, bid two of partner's suit. With three-card support and 7-9 high-card points and 7-10 total points, bid 2C. With four-card support and 7-9 high-card points and 7-10 total points, bid 2D.

Astro: Over opener's 1NT, if you have 6 or more High-Card Points, you may make an Astro bid with five-five in any two suits and 3+ Playing Tricks (4+ if vulnerable vs. not), or five-four in any two suits and 4+ Playing Tricks (5+ if vulnerable vs. not). Make an Astro bid of 2C with hearts and a minor, or 2D with spades and another suit.

Baron: This convention is part of the Precision system only. After a natural 2NT response to a 1C opener, 3C is Baron rather than Stayman. Baron asks partner to bid his lowest biddable four-card suit, or to bid 3NT with four or more clubs and no other four-card suit.

Bart: Playing this convention, after you open 1S and partner makes a forcing or semi-forcing 1NT response, you bid 2C with all 5-3-3-2 hands. In response to 2C, your partner may bid 2D with exactly five hearts to find the right part-score, 2H with six or more hearts to sign off, or 3D to sign off in diamonds. When playing Bart, after you open 1S and partner makes a forcing or semi-forcing 1NT responses, your 2D rebid guarantees four or more diamonds.

Benjamin 2-Bids: Open a Benjamin 2D with 23 or more Total Points and no singleton or six-card suit, or with 9 or more Playing Tricks and at least 4 High-Card Points outside your longest suit. Otherwise, open a Benjamin 2C with (1) 8 or more total Playing Tricks and AKQxxxx or AKQJxx in any suit; (2) Two suits of AKQxx or AQJxxx or better; (3) One suit of AQJxxx and one suit of AJTxxx or better; or (4) 21 or more Total Points, at least one five-card suit, and at least one void or singleton. Open a Benjamin 2H or 2S with 5 or more High Card Points, exactly six hearts or spades, and a hand too weak to open with a one-bid. (In fourth seat, open a Benjamin 2H or 2S with 9 or more High Card Points, exactly six hearts or spades, and a hand too weak to open with a one-bid.)

Bergen Raises: After partner opens one of a major, make a Bergen raise to three of partner's major with four or more trumps and 0-5 Total Points; make a Bergen raise to 3C with four or more trumps and 6-9 Total Points; make a Bergen raise to 3D with four or more trumps and 10-12 Total Points; make a Bergen raise to three of the other major with four or more trumps, 13 or more Total Points, and a side-suit singleton or void (if you are not playing splinters); make a Bergen raise to 3NT with exactly three trumps, 13-16 Total Points, a balanced hand, and stoppers in all side suits. When playing Bergen Raises, you use the Jacoby 2NT convention to show a forcing major raise.

Blackwood: A 4NT Blackwood bid asks partner about Aces. Partner bids 5C with 0 or 4 Aces, 5D with 1 Ace, 5H with 2 Aces, and 5S with 3 Aces. After a 4NT Blackwood bid and a response by partner, a 5NT Blackwood bid asks partner about Kings. Partner bids 6C with 0 or 4 Kings, 6D with 1 King, 6H with 2 Kings, and 6S with 3 Kings.

Both Long- and Short-Suit Game Tries: This convention combines both Long-Suit Game Tries and Short-Suit Game Tries and is played to show invitational hands after opener's 1H or 1S bid is raised to the two-level. If playing Both Long- and Short Suit Game Tries, on the auction 1H-any-2H-P, a bid of 2S indicates a Short-Suit Game Try in an unspecified suit, a bid of 2NT indicates a Long-Suit Game Try in spades, and a bid of 3C or 3D indicates a Long-Suit Game Try in the bid suit. On the auction 1S-any-2S-P, a bid of 2NT indicates a Short-Suit Game Try in an unspecified suit and a bid of 3C, 3D, or 3H indicates a Long-Suit Game Try in the bid suit. After a Short-Suit Game Try is made, responder must make the cheapest rebid available so that opener can specify the short suit.

Brozel: Over opener's 1NT, with 13 or more Total Points and any six-card suit, make a Brozel double. With 6 or more High-Card Points, five-five in any two suits, and 3+ Playing Tricks (4+ if vulnerable vs. not), make a Brozel two-suited bid: bid 2C to show hearts and clubs, 2D to show hearts and diamonds, 2H to show hearts and spades, 2S to show spades and a minor, or 2NT to show both minors. With four cards or more in each of three suits and 16 or more Total Points, jump to the suit of your void or singleton at the three-level.

Cappelletti: An immediate overcall of 1NT describes either a one-suited or a two-suited hand, as follows: 2C shows a one-suited hand, 2D shows both majors, 2H shows hearts and a minor, and 2S shows spades and a minor. In the case of the 2C bid, partner "relays" to 2D to allow the overcaller to bid his or her suit (or to pass if the suit is diamonds). In the case of 2H or 2S, partner may either pass or bid 2NT to permit the overcaller to bid the minor.

Checkback Stayman (also known as Delayed Stayman): This convention helps you find five-three fits in your major or four-four fits in the unbid major when you are responder. If the bidding has gone 1minor-1major-1NT to you with no intervention, and you have at least 10 High-Card Points, and you have either exactly five cards in your major or exactly four cards in the unbid major, and you are playing Checkback Stayman, and you are not five-five or better in the majors, you bid 2C to search for a major fit. Your partner will bid your major with three-card support, will bid the unbid major with four cards in it, or will bid an artificial 2D to deny three-card support for your major and to deny four cards in the unbid major.

Control Responses to 2C Opening Bids: When you are playing this convention, your response to an opening 2C bid is based on the number of "controls" you hold, in which each ace counts as two controls and each king counts as one control. You respond 2D with zero controls or one control and 0-5 High-Card Points; 2H with zero controls or one control and 6 or more High-Card Points; 2S with two controls; 2NT with three kings and no aces; 3C with one king and one ace; 3D with four controls; or 3H with five or more controls. When you are using the Forum D system in conjunction with this convention, your responses are based instead on the aces you hold: you respond 2D with no aces and 0-7 High-Card Points; 2NT with no aces and 8 or more High-Card Points; 3NT with two aces; 4NT with three aces; 2H with only the ace of hearts; 2S with only the ace of spades; 3C with only the ace of clubs; or 3D with only the ace of diamonds.

Control-Asking Bids: If you have 32 or more joint Total Points and an eight-card fit, the opponents have never bid, you have first-round control of every suit except one, and that suit ranks below the trump suit, bid five of that suit as a Control Asking Bid.

Control-Showing Cuebids: This is a useful tool for investigating slam possibilities. The general rule is that after a trump suit has been agreed upon, a non-jump bid higher than three of the agreed suit in a suit not bid by your side is a control-showing bid. Usually the control is the ace of that suit, but in some cases it is a void. Further bids of non-agreed suits are also control-showing cue-bids, and the second such bid in the same suit shows second-round control. After a control-showing cue-bid has been made, the bidding may end only in the agreed suit (or in notrump) at game or higher. If the agreed trump suit is a minor, the bid of an unbid suit below 3NT is not a control-showing bid but shows either a natural suit or a stopper for notrump.

Crowhurst: When playing Standard English/Acol, problems arise on the auction 1X-P-1Y-P-1NT as opener's range is very wide, from 12-16 or even 11-16 points. Crowhurst is a convention designed to invite game and also simultaneously checkback as responder for a possible 5-3 major suit fit. Playing Crowhurst, after 1X-1Y-1NT, 2C is completely artificial and asks partner first to describe his/her range and then to describe his/her major suit shape. With 15 or 16 high-card points, partner will always rebid 2NT to establish a game-force. With less than 14 high-card points, partner will rebid 2 of responder's major with three-card support, rebid 2H if he/she opened 1H and has a five-card heart suit, rebid two of the unbid major with a four-card suit, or else rebid 2D artificially denying all of the above hands. Bidding then proceeds naturally. To make a Crowhurst bid you must have at least invitational values (10+ high-card points), as without a fit you may be forced to play 2NT.

Delayed Splinter Bids: The Delayed Splinter Bids convention is an extension of Splinter Bids and allows you to show a game-forcing hand, an established trump suit (always a major), and a singleton or void in the bid suit. The difference between Delayed Splinter Bids and regular Splinter Bids is that a Delayed Splinter Bid occurs when you have already bid. An example auction would be 1D-P-1H-P-4C, showing a game-going hand with four-card heart support for partner and a singleton or void in clubs. Another example would be the auction 1S-P-2H-P-4D, showing four-card heart support, game-going strength, and a singleton or void in diamonds. It is also possible to make a Delayed Splinter Bid after a trump suit has been agreed upon or after a major suit has been rebid, such as on the following auctions: 1H-P-2H-P-4C or 1S-P-2D-P-2S-P-4C.

Delayed Two-Suited Bids: While many players play Michaels, Unusual 2NT, and Leaping Michaels after a single bid by the opponents, it is also worthwhile to have two-suited bids available to you after both opponents have bid. This is where the Delayed Two-Suited Bids convention comes into play. Bridge Baron plays Delayed Two-Suited Bids in the following situations. After a one-level opening by your LHO and a one- or two-level response in a new suit by your RHO, a bid of 2NT is for Takeout and shows at least 5-5 in each of the unbid suits (this can be played in conjunction with Sandwich NT, but shows a significantly more distributional hand). After a one-level opening by your LHO and a 1NT response by your RHO, a cue-bid of LHO's opening bid suit is Michaels, while a 2NT bid is Unusual 2NT. After a one-level opening by your LHO and a raise to the two-level by your RHO, a 2NT bid is Unusual 2NT. Finally, after a one-level major-suit opening by your LHO and a three- or four-level response by your RHO, a bid of 4NT shows both minors. All Delayed Two-Suited bids promise at least 5-5 distribution in the unbid suits, and should promise 11 or more total points, as well as reasonable safety at the level to which you are committing your partnership.

D.O.N.T.: D.O.N.T stands for Disturb the Opponents’ Notrump. Over opener's 1NT, make a D.O.N.T. double with 6 or more High-Card Points, 4-4.5 Playing Tricks (5-5.5 if vulnerable vs. not), and any six-card suit. With 6 or more High-Card Points, 5 or more Playing Tricks (6 or more if vulnerable vs. not), and any six-card suit, bid your suit at the three-level. Otherwise, if you have 6 or more High-Card Points, you may make a D.O.N.T. bid with five-five in any two suits and 3+ Playing Tricks (4+ if vulnerable vs. not), or five-four in any two suits and 4+ Playing Tricks (5+ if vulnerable vs. not). Make a D.O.N.T. bid of 2C with clubs and another suit, 2D with diamonds and a major, or 2H with both majors.

DONT Notrump Runouts: If the opponents have doubled your partner's 1NT opening bid, DONT Notrump Runouts provide you with a way to try to escape the penalty with as little damage as possible. The DONT Runout bids are similar to the notrump overcall convention DONT; hence, they share the same name. Playing DONT Runouts, Redouble shows a single-suited hand and forces partner to bid 2C so that you can pass or correct. All bids at the two-level show a two-suited hand with the bid suit and another higher-ranking suit: 2C shows clubs and another suit, 2D shows diamonds and a major, and 2H shows both majors. If you have a good hand and want to play 1NT-X, you should pass. For the purposes of runout bids, a hand is two-suited if it is 4-4 or better, and it is single-suited if it contains a six-card or longer suit or a five-card suit without another four-card suit. If 4-3-3-3 it is usually best to pretend the hand is two-suited.

DOPI: When an opponent makes an overcall over partner's 4NT Blackwood bid, and you are playing DOPI: Double shows 0 Aces, Pass shows 1 Ace, the cheapest bid shows 2 Aces, the next cheapest bid shows 3 Aces, and the next cheapest bid after that shows 4 Aces. If you are playing Roman Keycard Blackwood and DOPI: Double shows 0 or 3 Keycards, Pass shows 1 or 4 Keycards, and the cheapest bid shows 2 or 5 Keycards. DOPI is a corruption of D0P1, or Double Zero, Pass One.

Drury: In response to an opening bid of one of a major in third seat or fourth seat, a Drury 2C bid by responder (who passed originally) asks opener to bid 2D with a weak opening hand, and to make any other bid otherwise.

Eastern Cue-Bids: After partner opens the bidding and your right-hand opponent overcalls, you may bid the opponents' suit as an Eastern Cue-Bid with a game-forcing balanced hand and no stopper in the opponents' suit. Opener responds as follows. With a minimum semi-balanced hand, bid the cheapest notrump; with an intermediate semi-balanced hand, jump to 3NT if possible, or cue-bid the opponents' suit; with 18-19 High-Card Points and a semi-balanced hand, jump to 4NT; with an unbalanced hand, make a natural bid. After partner opens the bidding in a major and your right-hand opponent overcalls, if you are playing Eastern Cue-Bids, you may jump to 3NT to show a game-forcing major-suit raise without a stopper in the opponents' suit.

Epsilon Control Ask: This convention is part of the Precision system only. After a Gamma Trump Ask has been made and partner has responded, a bid in a new suit is an Epsilon Control Ask, asking partner to show controls in that suit. With AK or AQ in that suit, partner will make a five-step response; with the Ace or a void in that suit, partner will make a four-step response; with the King or a singleton in that suit, partner will make a three-step response; with the Queen or a doubleton in that suit, partner will make a two-step response; otherwise, partner will make a one-step response.

Exit Transfer Notrump Runouts: If the opponents have doubled your partner's 1NT opening bid, Exit Transfer Notrump Runouts provide you with a way to try to escape the penalty with as little damage as possible. Exit Transfers additionally have the benefit of allowing the Notrump opener to declare most two-level contracts, "right-siding" them. Playing Exit Transfers, Redouble is a transfer to 2C and shows 5+ clubs, 2C is a transfer to diamonds and shows 5+ diamonds, 2D is a transfer to hearts and shows 5+ hearts, and 2H is a transfer to spades and shows 5+ spades. If you have a two-suited hand, you should Pass; your pass forces partner to Redouble; then with a hand well suited to play 1NT-XX you can pass, or else you can describe your two-suited hand by bidding 2C to show clubs and a higher-ranking suit, 2D to show diamonds and a major, and 2H to show both majors. For the purposes of runout bids, a hand is two-suited if it is 4-4 or better, and it is single-suited if it contains a six-card or longer suit or a five-card suit without another four-card suit. If 4-3-3-3, it is usually best to pretend the hand is two-suited.

Extended Stayman: Almost all bridge players use the Stayman 2C response to an opening 1NT bid to ask about a 4-card major suit. Traditionally, the 1NT opener then bids 2D to show no four-card major, 2H to show a four-card heart suit, or 2S to show a four-card spade suit. With the Extended Stayman convention, there are eight different responses to a Stayman 2C bid; each response shows precisely which four-card majors the 1NT opener holds, as well as the strength of the 1NT opener’s hand. The 1NT opener bids 2D to show four cards in both majors and a minimum hand; 2H to show four cards in hearts, but not in spades, and a minimum hand; 2S to show four cards in spades, but not in hearts, and a minimum hand; 2NT to show no four-card major and a minimum hand; 3C to show no four-card major and a maximum hand; 3D to show four cards in both majors and a maximum hand; 3H to show four cards in hearts, but not in spades, and a maximum hand; or 3S to show four cards in spades, but not in hearts, and a maximum hand. A minimum hand for the 1NT opener would be no more than one total point more than the minimum requirement for an opening 1NT; a maximum hand for the 1NT opener would be two or more total points above the minimum requirement for an opening 1NT. For example, playing a 16-18 1NT opening bid, a minimum hand for the 1NT opener would be 16-17 Total Points; a maximum hand would be 18-19 Total Points.

Feature-Asking 2NT: In response to your weak two bid, a 2NT bid by partner is feature-asking. With 8 or more High-Card Points, you bid a notrump stopper outside your suit; otherwise (if weak or with no outside notrump stopper), you rebid your suit with minimum strength.

Flannery: A Flannery 2D opening bid shows exactly five hearts, exactly four spades, and 11-15 High Card Points. These hands are difficult to bid using standard methods.

Forcing 1NT over 1H/1S: A 1NT bid in response to a one-level opening major suit bid is forcing for one round. Opener rebids the major if it is a six-card suit, shows a four-card heart suit if the opening bid was 1S, rebids 2NT with notrump distribution and 16-18 high-card points, rebids 3NT with notrump distribution and 19-21 high-card points, or rebids the better minor.

Forcing Major Raises: A double raise of partner’s 1H or 1S opening bid shows 13-16 Total Points and Qxx support or better. (By a passed hand, however, a double raise of partner’s 1H or 1S opening bid shows 10-12 Total Points.)

Fourth Suit Forcing for One Round: Playing Fourth Suit Forcing for One Round, a bid of the fourth suit in an auction that started with a one-over-one response is completely artificial and shows invitational or better values while asking partner to further describe his/her hand. The primary purposes of this bid are to find a 5-3 major suit fit or to ask for a stopper in the 4th suit to play notrump. The player responding to the 4th suit forcing bid should just make the most descriptive bid available, showing delayed three-card support for partner's bid suit, a stopper in the 4th suit and a semi-balanced hand, or additional length in either of the suits he/she has already bid. To make a Fourth Suit Forcing bid that is forcing for one round, you must have at least 11 total points and 10 high-card points.

Fourth Suit Forcing to Game: Playing Fourth Suit Forcing to Game, a bid of the fourth suit in an auction that started with a one-over-one response is completely artificial and establishes an immediate game-force. The primary purpose of this bid is to check back for a 5-3 major suit fit, to ask for a stopper in the 4th suit to play in notrump, to show a game-forcing hand with 6 or more cards in a major, or to make a game-forcing raise of opener's first bid suit. The player responding to the 4th suit forcing bid should just make the most descriptive bid available, showing delayed three-card support for partner's bid suit, a stopper in the 4th suit and a semi-balanced hand, or additional length in either of the suits he/she has already bid. To make a Fourth Suit Forcing bid that is forcing to game, you must have at least 13 total points and 11 high-card points.

Gambling 3NT: A Gambling 3NT opening bid shows a long solid minor suit (7 or more solid playing tricks in the suit) with no Aces or Kings outside the suit.

Gamma Trump Ask: This convention is part of the Precision system only. When you open the bidding with a Precision 1C bid, if partner makes a natural bid of 1H, 1S, 2C, or 2D, and you have four-card support, you may make a Gamma Trump Ask rebid by raising partner's suit. With AKQxx or better in that suit, partner will make a six-step response; with AK or KQ or AQ in that suit, and six cards in that suit, partner will make a five-step response; with Ace or King or Queen in that suit, and six cards in that suit, partner will make a four-step response; with AK or KQ or AQ in that suit, and five cards in that suit, partner will make a three-step response; with Ace or King or Queen in that suit, and five cards in that suit, partner will make a two-step response; with no Ace or King or Queen in that suit, partner will make a one-step response.

Garbage Stayman: In response to partner's opening 1NT bid, you may bid a Garbage Stayman 2C with a weak hand, at least four cards in one major, and another major with five or more cards, planning to sign off in your five-card major if partner bids 2D. You may also bid a Garbage Stayman 2C with five or more diamonds and at least four-three in the majors, planning to pass partner's response. Finally, you may also bid a Garbage Stayman 2C with four or more diamonds, four or more hearts, and four or more spades, planning to pass partner's response.

Gerber: This convention is always on but rarely used. 4C is Gerber when it is bid in response to partner’s 1NT, 2NT, or (if not playing Gambling NT) 3NT opening bid; or when the bidding proceeds (opponents silent, Stayman or Jacoby response) 1NT-2C-2X-4C or 1NT-2D-2H-4C or 1NT-2H-2S-4C. A Gerber 4C asks for Aces: the responses are 4D with 0 or 4 Aces, 4H with 1 Ace, 4S with 2 Aces, or 4NT with 3 Aces. After a 4C Gerber bid and a response from partner, a 5C Gerber bid asks partner about Kings. The responses are 5D with 0 or 4 Kings, 5H with 1 King, 5S with 2 Kings, or 5NT with 3 Kings.

German 2C Relays: If the bidding has gone 1X-1major-1NT to you with no intervention, and you have 11 or more Total Points and one of the hand types listed below, you may bid 2C as a German 2C Relay. Your partner will bid 2D, and then your next bid is as follows. With 11-12 Total Points, five cards in your major, and four cards in an unbid major, you bid the unbid major. With 11-12 Total Points and exactly five cards in your major, you bid 2NT. With 11-12 Total Points and six or more cards in your major, you rebid your major. With 11-12 Total Points and three or more cards in hearts after the auction 1H-1S-1NT-2C-2D, you bid 2H. With 13 or more total points, exactly five cards in your major, and exactly four cards in a minor, you bid three of that minor. With 13-17 total points and exactly five cards in your major, you bid 3NT. After you specify your hand type, bidding proceeds naturally.

Ghestem: Make a Ghestem overcall over an opening bid of one of a suit with five or more cards in any two unbid suits, and 5-11 High-Card Points. Over 1C, bid 2D to show hearts and spades, bid 2NT to show hearts and diamonds, or bid 3C to show diamonds and spades. Over 1D/1H/1S, bid 2NT to show the two lowest unbid suits, bid 3C to show the two highest unbid suits, or cuebid to show the lowest and highest unbid suits.

Graded Ogust: Graded Ogust is a modification of the Ogust convention that is used to differentiate between five- and six-card opening Weak Two-Bids. If you play an aggressive style of weak two-level openings, which allows for opening on only a five-card suit, it becomes important to differentiate between hands with a five-card suit and those with a six-card suit. Graded Ogust is a 2NT bid in response to a Weak Two opening. Opener then classifies his hand-type with his next bid: 3C with a five-card suit, 3D with a six-card suit and a bad hand, 3H with a six-card suit and an average hand, or 3S with a six-card suit and a good hand. To bid Graded Ogust you must have at least invitational values (defined as high-card points plus the number of trump in support of partner's suit being greater than or equal to 17) -- you must be willing to commit to game if partner responds 3S. After a 3C response to Graded Ogust, assuming opener's bid suit was not diamonds, a 3D continuation by responder asks for further clarification of opener's hand; opener responds 3H with a bad hand or 3S with a good hand.

Grand Slam Force: A bid of 5NT not following a Blackwood 4NT bid is an inquiry about trump honors. Partner is commanded to bid 7 of the agreed trump suit with two of the three top honors. If there is no agreed trump suit, a jump to 5NT sets partner’s last-bid suit as trumps. A response of 6C, if clubs is not the agreed suit, shows just the ace or king of trumps; a response of 6D, if the agreed suit is not a minor, shows just the queen of trumps. If unable to make any other response, responder bids 6 of the agreed trump suit.

Hello: Over opener's 1NT, you may bid a Hello 2C to show either six or more diamonds and 10+ High-Card Points (12+ High-Card Points if 6-3-2-2), or five or more cards in a major and four or more cards in a minor and 10+ High-Card Points (12+ High-Card Points if 5-4-2-2). Over opener's 1NT, you may bid a Hello 2D to show six or more hearts and 10+ High-Card Points (12+ High-Card Points if 6-3-2-2). Over opener's 1NT, you may bid a Hello 2H to show either 8+ High-Card Points and five-five or better in the majors (9+ High-Card Points if 5-5-2-1), or 10+ High-Card Points and five-four or better in the majors. Over opener's 1NT, you may bid a Hello 2S to show six or more spades and 10+ High-Card Points (12+ High-Card Points if 6-3-2-2). Over opener's 1NT, you may bid a Hello 2NT to show six or more clubs, 12+ High-Card Points, and a side singleton or void. Over opener's 1NT, you may bid a Hello 3C to show 10+ High-Card Points, five or more clubs, and five or more diamonds.

Helvic Notrump Runouts: If the opponents have doubled your partner's 1NT opening bid, Helvic Notrump Runouts provide you with a way to try to escape the penalty with as little damage as possible. Playing Helvic, you can either show a single-suited hand by redoubling or show a two-suited hand by bidding at the two-level. A 2C bid shows clubs and diamonds, a 2D bid shows diamonds and hearts, a 2H bid shows hearts and spades, and a 2S bid shows spades and clubs. If you redouble, partner will bid 2C as a pass-or-correct bid. And finally, if you actually want to play in 1NT despite the double, or if you have a two-suited hand with non-touching suits, you should pass. Your pass forces partner to redouble so that you can play 1NT redoubled, or so that you can bid 2C to show clubs and hearts or 2D to show diamonds and spades. For the purposes of runout bids, a hand is two-suited if it is 4-4 or better, and it is single-suited if it contains a six-card or longer suit or a five-card suit without another four-card suit. If 4-3-3-3, it is usually best to pretend the hand is two-suited.

Impossible Negative 2NT: This convention is part of the Precision system only. When partner opens the bidding with a Precision 1C bid, if you have one singleton and three four-card suits, and eight or more high-card points, you may make an Impossible Negative 2NT response to show your 4-4-4-1 distribution.

Inverted Bergen Raises: Inverted Bergen Raises are the same as Bergen Raises with exception that the meaning of the 3C and 3D bids are reversed. Playing Inverted Bergen Raises, 3C shows a limit-raise or better in support of partner's major and 3D shows a constructive raise with 7-9 points and four-card support of partner's major. All other Bergen bids remain the same: 3 of the original major is preemptive showing 0-6 points, 3NT shows 13-16 points and no shortness, 2NT is Jacoby, and 3 of the other major is a splinter bid in an unspecified suit.

Inverted Minor Raises: Whereas 1C-2C and 1D-2D in standard bidding are weak bids and 1C-3C and 1D-3D are strong bids, this treatment is reversed when Inverted Minor Raises are played. The idea is to keep the bidding low when the responding hand is strong. A single raise of a minor suit shows at least 10 total points and at least four-card support for the minor suit.

Invisible Cuebids: When the opponents make a two-suited overcall of partner's opening bid, and you have at least 10 High-Card Points and either three-card support (four-card support if playing Standard English/Acol) for partner's major suit or four-card support for partner's minor suit, bid the lower of the two suits specified by the opponents (or the only suit specified by the opponents) as an Invisible Cuebid. When the opponents make a two-suited overcall of partner's opening bid that specifies both suits, and you have at least 10 High-Card Points and at least five cards in the fourth suit, bid the higher of the two suits specified by the opponents as an Invisible Cuebid.

Invitational Three-Level Jump-Shifts: Invitational Three-Level Jump Shifts are only playable with the Two-Over-One bidding system. Playing Invitational Three-Level Jump Shifts, a single-jump bid in a new suit at the three level in response to partner's one-level opening bid shows an invitational hand (10-12 total points) with a good six-card or longer suit. Invitational Three-Level Jump Shifts are non-forcing and the suit should be good enough to play opposite a singleton from partner.

Jacoby 2NT: The Jacoby 2NT convention is usually played in conjunction with either Limit Major Raises or Bergen Raises. When playing the Jacoby 2NT convention, after partner opens 1H or 1S, with four-card support or better and 13 or more Total Points, you jump to 2NT. Partner then bids as follows. With 0-13 Total Points, partner bids four of the agreed major. With 14-15 Total Points and an unbid five-card suit, partner bids the unbid five-card suit at the four level. With 14-15 Total Points and a void or singleton, partner bids the suit of the void or singleton at the three level. With 14-15 Total Points and no void or singleton, partner bids 3NT. With 16 or more Total Points, partner bids the agreed major at the three level.

Jacoby Transfers: When your partner opens with 1NT and you have a five-card or longer major suit, you "transfer" to hearts by bidding 2D and to spades by bidding 2H. After the notrump opener responds, you pass to show a weak hand. You bid 2NT to invite game or 3NT to insist on game if your suit is five cards long; partner is expected to correct to your suit with three-card support or to play in notrump with two-card support. If your suit is six cards long, you bid three of your suit to invite game or four of your suit to play in game.

Jacoby Transfer Superacceptances with Working Doubletons: When you play this convention, you can make four different bids as superacceptances of partner's Jacoby Transfer bid, rather than just one. You make a superacceptance with a maximum hand and four (or more) cards in partner's major. After 1NT-2D, you bid 2H without a superacceptance, 2S with a superacceptance and a working doubleton in spades, 2NT with a superacceptance but no working doubleton, 3C with a superacceptance and a working doubleton in clubs, or 3H (not 3D) with a superacceptance and a working doubleton in diamonds. After 1NT-2H, you bid 2S without a superacceptance, 2NT with a superacceptance but no working doubleton, 3C with a superacceptance and a working doubleton in clubs, 3D with a superacceptance and a working doubleton in diamonds, or 3S (not 3H) with a superacceptance and a working doubleton in hearts. A working doubleton is any doubleton other than AK, AQ, AJ, KQ, KJ, QJ, or Qx. Partner may retransfer after any superacceptance by bidding 3 of the suit below the trump suit, after which you bid 3 of the trump suit so that you may become declarer.

Kokish Relay: This convention is used to show a strong balanced hand at the two-level after a strong 2C opening. When partner responds 2D (waiting or negative) to your 2C opening, your bid of 2H forces partner to respond 2S; then after partner's 2S, your bid of 2NT shows a balanced hand with 25 to 27 high-card points. Holding a balanced hand with 22 to 24 high-card points, you open 2C and plan to rebid 2NT; holding a balanced hand with 28 or more high-card points, you open 2C and plan to rebid 3NT.

Landy: Over opener’s 1NT, a Landy 2C bid shows four-four or better in the majors and 13 or more Total Points. If you play Landy, your other overcalls over an opening 1NT are natural.

Lead Directing Doubles: When the opponents have bid a suit artificially as part of a convention, you can make a Lead-Directing Double of their bid to indicate to partner that you have honor strength in the bid suit and he should lead that suit should he end up on opening lead. If you are making a Lead-Directing Double at a low-level, below the four-level, you need to have length in the suit as well, to assure that the opponents do not redouble you and make the contract. Bridge Baron's suit quality requirements for a Lead-Directing Double are as follows: at the two-level you need at least 5 cards in the suit and at least 6 HCP and 3 honors; at the three-level you need at least 4 cards in the suit and at least two of the top three honors; at all other levels you need either just the A or the KQ in the suit.

Leaping Michaels: Playing this convention, after your right-hand opponent opens with a Weak Two-Bid in a major, your jump to four of a minor shows a strong hand (16 or more points), five or more cards in the bid minor, and exactly five cards in the other major. When playing this convention, after your right-hand opponent opens with any Weak Two-Bid, your direct cue-bid shows a good hand with a running minor, and asks partner to bid 3NT with a stopper in the suit of the Weak Two-Bid.

Lebensohl After a Reverse: Playing Lebensohl After a Reverse, when you are responder and your partner has reversed, your 2NT bid is an artificial relay bid showing a hand with less than game-forcing strength. After your partner has reversed, you should bid 2NT with the following hand types: 1) 6 or fewer Total Points and a known eight-card major suit fit with partner. 2) 8 or fewer Total Points and four-card support for a minor suit shown by partner. 3) 8 or fewer High Card Points and a six-card or longer suit of your own. 3) 8 or fewer High-Card Points without a known fit and without a stopper in the unbid suits, on a hand planning to take a preference to partner's first suit.

Lebensohl After Double of Weak Two-Bid: When partner makes a takeout double of a Weak Two-Bid, a response of 2NT requires partner to bid 3C. Responder may then pass or bid a higher-ranking suit as a signoff. A three-level suit response to the takeout double thus is constructive, though not forcing.

Lebensohl After Overcall of 1NT: This convention provides a method for distinguishing between certain weak and strong hands. After an opponent overcalls partner’s opening 1NT bid, a response of 2NT is an artificial transfer bid, forcing partner to bid 3C. The responder may then pass or bid three or any higher suit as a signoff. A response of three in a new suit is natural and forcing, whether or not it is a jump bid. If responder’s suit is higher-ranking than the overcaller’s suit, resort to Lebensohl is usually unnecessary, since a two-level response is weak and nonforcing, as in standard bidding.

Limit Major Raises: A jump raise to three of a major suit shows 10-12 points and is invitational to game. If you are playing Forcing 1NT (see above), the jump shows four-card support. Otherwise, three cards to an honor is acceptable. When playing Limit Major Raises, you usually use the Jacoby 2NT convention to show a forcing major raise.

Limit-Plus Cue-Bids: When partner opens the bidding with 1H or 1S, if your right-hand opponent overcalls, you may make a Limit-Plus Cue-Bid of the opponents' suit to show 10 or more Total Points and at least three-card support for partner. When the Limit-Plus Cue-Bid convention is turned on, if partner opens the bidding with 1H or 1S and your right-hand opponent overcalls, a jump-raise of partner's suit shows 0-6 Total Points and at least four-card support for partner.

Long-Suit Game Tries: After your 1H or 1S opening is raised to 2H or 2S, with 16-18 Total Points, you may make a Long-Suit Game Try. Make the cheapest bid in the suit in which you have the most losers. If your right-hand opponent has just bid, however, and you thus cannot make the cheapest bid in the suit in which you have the most losers below three of the trump suit, you may instead make the cheapest available bid in any suit (below three of the trump suit) as a Long-Suit Game Try. Long-Suit Game Tries are also known as Help-Suit Game Tries.

Major-Suit Splinter Responses to 1NT: Playing this convention, after partner has opened 1NT, your 3H and 3S bids are game-forcing, and show exactly one card in the bid suit, exactly three cards in the other major, exactly five cards in one minor and exactly four cards in the other minor. Partner will bid naturally, with 3NT being to play.

Mathe Asking Bids: If you opened one of a major, partner made a limit raise, and you have 19 or more Total Points, make a Mathe asking bid to find out if partner has a singleton. If partner opened one of a suit, you bid one of a major, partner jumped to three of your major, and you have 12 or more Total Points, make a Mathe asking bid to find out if partner has a singleton. The Mathe asking bid is 3S if your major is hearts or 3N if your major is spades.

Maximal Overcall Doubles: If you are the opening bidder, and you opened 1 of a major, and your left-hand opponent doubled or bid, and your partner raised you to 2 of a major, and your right-hand opponent bid the suit below your major at the 3-level, make a Maximal Overcall Double if you have 16-18 Total Points.

McCabe Adjunct: After partner makes a Weak Two-Bid and your right-hand opponent makes a Takeout Double, your bid of 2NT is the McCabe Adjunct, which forces partner to bid 3C. After partner's 3C bid, you can sign off in a suit of your own (or pass 3C if clubs is your suit), or bid three of partner's suit to invite to game. When playing this convention, after partner makes a Weak Two-Bid and your right-hand opponent makes a Takeout Double, you may make a lead-directing bid of a new suit that also guarantees support for partner's suit.

Meckwell: Playing Meckwell over the opponent's 1NT opening bid: double shows a hand with either a single-suited minor or both majors; a 2C overcall shows a 5-card or longer club suit and a four-card or longer major; a 2D overcall shows a 5-card or longer diamond suit and a four-card or longer major; both a 2H overcall and a 2S overcall are natural, showing a single-suited hand; and a 2NT overcall shows both minors with at least 5-5 distribution. All Meckwell overcalls show 11 or more Total Points and 8 or more High-Card Points.

Michaels Cue-Bid: A Michaels cue-bid is to describe a two-suited hand that is either weak or strong but not intermediate. A bid of 2C over an opening bid of 1C, or 2D over 1D, shows hearts and spades. A bid of 2H over 1H, or 2S over 1S, shows the other major and either minor. Both suits generally should be at least five cards long. A bid of 2NT by responder asks the cue-bidder to bid the minor. A second bid by the cue-bidder (other than in response to 2NT) shows that the cue bid was strong (16 High-Card Points or more). With an intermediate hand, it is better just to overcall your highest-ranking five-card suit.

Mini-Multi: This convention is part of the Standard English/Acol system only. When you open a Mini-Multi 2D bid, you have a weak two-bid in either major (5 or more High-Card Points, a six-card major, and a hand too weak to open with a one-bid). Your partner responds as if you had opened a Multi 2D bid.

Mini-Roman 2D: Mini-Roman 2D is an opening bid used to solve many of bridge's problem hands. These problem hands are the three-suited hands that are often very difficult to describe. A three-suited hand is a hand with 5-4-4-0 or 4-4-4-1 shape. A Mini-Roman 2D opening bid shows specifically 11-15 high-card points and either 5-4-4-0 or 4-4-4-1 distribution. Responder may then take a preference by bidding 2H, 2S, or 3C to play; in that case, assuming the bid suit is not the opener's short suit, opener will pass; if the bid suit is opener's short suit, opener will bid one step higher, asking partner to pass or correct to the best fit. If, rather than signing off, responder is interested in game, responder should bid 2NT. 2NT is artificial and shows nearly game-forcing values. It then asks opener to bid his singleton at the three-level so that responder knows opener's shape and can place the final contract.

Minor-Suit Stayman: When Jacoby Transfer Bids are used, the response of 2S to an opening 1NT bid is not needed as a natural bid, since the responder can bid 2H as a transfer to 2S. The Minor-Suit Stayman convention uses the 2S response to show at least five-four in the minor suits and interest in game, or at least four-four in the minor suits and interest in slam. The partnership may then explore minor-suit possibilities as an alternative to playing in notrump. The 2S response denies a four-card major.

Minor-Suit Transfers (no superacceptance): When partner opens 1NT, you may bid 2S as a transfer to clubs, or 3C as a transfer to diamonds. You always need at least six cards in a minor suit to transfer to that suit, and you must have no five-card major. With a weak hand (up to 22 joint High-Card Points), transfer with a seven-card minor, or with a six-card minor and a side void or singleton; with an intermediate hand (23 to 24 joint High-Card Points), transfer with no four-card major and a side void; with a strong hand (25 or more joint High-Card Points), transfer with no four-card major and either a side void or 30 or more joint Total Points.

Minor-Suit Transfers (with superacceptance): When partner opens 1NT, you may bid 2S as a transfer to clubs, or 2NT as a transfer to diamonds. You always need at least six cards in a minor suit to transfer to that suit, and you must have no five-card major. With a weak hand (up to 22 joint High-Card Points), transfer with a seven-card minor, or with a six-card minor and a side void or singleton; with an intermediate hand (23 to 24 joint High-Card Points), transfer with no four-card major; with a strong hand (25 or more joint High-Card Points), transfer with no four-card major and either a side void or 30 or more joint Total Points. Partner will usually bid 3C in response to 2S and 3D in response to 2NT; if partner bids 2NT in response to 2S or 3C in response to 2NT, it is a superacceptance, showing a maximum NT opener and either Axx, Kxx, QJx, or xxxx or better support. Since your 2NT response to partner’s 1NT opening is no longer natural, with a hand that would normally invite to 3NT, you simply bid 2C Stayman and bid 2NT on the next round.

Mixed Raise Jump Cue-Bid Responses: When playing this convention, after your left-hand opponent has opened the bidding with one of a suit, and partner has overcalled in a suit at the one-level, you can make a jump cue-bid in opener's suit at the three-level to show a hand with four-card support for partner and 8 to 10 total points.

Multi 2D: This convention is part of the Standard English/Acol system only. When you open a Multi 2D bid, you have either an Acol strong two-bid in either minor, or a weak two-bid in either major (5 or more High-Card Points, a six-card major, and a hand too weak to open with a one-bid). Even though you may have a strong hand, your partner will assume a weak hand until shown otherwise. With enough strength to make game in either major, your partner will bid 4C to ask you to bid the suit below your major (so that your partner can be declarer) or 4D to ask you to bid your major (so that you can be declarer). With enough strength to make game in only one major, or to invite game in both majors, your partner will bid 2NT to ask you to clarify the hand. With enough strength to invite game in hearts but not spades, your partner will bid 2S. Otherwise, your partner will bid 2H; you will pass or correct to 2S, and then your partner may invite game in spades if desired.

Multi-Landy: Multi-Landy is a defense against the opponent's 1NT opening bid. It is based on two other commonly used conventions, the Multi 2D opening bid and the Landy defense to 1NT. Playing Multi-Landy, after your right-hand opponent has opened 1NT: a bid of 2C shows the majors; a bid of 2D shows a single-suited hand with either hearts or spades; and a bid of 2H or 2S shows a two-suited hand containing the bid suit and an unspecified minor suit. When playing Multi-Landy, a double of the opponent's 1NT opening bid remains for penalty. After partner has made a Multi-Landy 2D overcall of the opponent's 1NT, all major suit bids below game are "pass or correct"; a bid of 2H says "pass if your major suit is hearts or bid 2S if your major suit is spades" and does not necessarily promise any heart tolerance; a bid of 2S similarly says "pass if your major suit is spades and bid 3H if your major suit is hearts" --this bid promises a good heart fit, if partner's suit is hearts, but does not guarantee any spade tolerance. To make a two-suited Multi-Landy overcall you must have at least 5-4 distribution, but 5-5 is preferable. For all Multi-Landy bids you must have at least 11 total points. A penalty double promises more strength than the top of the 1NT opening bidder's range (if the opponents are playing 15-17 1NT bids, your double promises 18 or more high-card points).

Multi-Roman: This convention is part of the Standard English/Acol system only. When you open a Multi-Roman 2D bid, you have either 17 to 24 High-Card Points and exactly 4-4-4-1 distribution, or a weak two-bid in either major (5 or more High-Card Points, a six-card major, and a hand too weak to open with a one-bid). Even though you may have a strong hand, your partner will assume a weak hand until shown otherwise, and thus will respond as if you had opened a Multi 2D bid.

Namyats: Make a Namyats 4C or 4D opening bid with a hand with long length in a major suit (at least a good seven card suit or 8+) and enough strength that the hand is too strong for a normal 4H or 4S preemptive bid. If you are not vulnerable and the opponents are vulnerable you should open a Namyats 4C or 4D with 7+ playing tricks; if you and the opponents are at equal vulnerability, you should open a Namyats 4C or 4D with 8+ playings tricks; if you are vulnerable and the opponents are not vulnerable you should open a Namyats 4C or 4D with 9+ playing tricks. Generally speaking, 4H and 4S opening bids show about one playing trick less than the Namyats bid would show. With 10+ playing tricks, the hand is too strong to be opened Namyats and should be opened 2C instead.

Negative Double: When your partner opens with one of a suit and the next player overcalls at the one- or two-level, a negative double is a takeout for the unbid suits. In particular, it shows four cards in the unbid major(s) or a five- or six-card major with a hand too weak to bid the major at a higher level. When playing La Majeure Cinquieme, a Negative Double of a 1D or 1H overcall shows 8 or more high-card points and no unbid four-card or longer major suit. If the overcall is higher than 1S and you have 4 or more cards in both unbid suits, make a negative double with 8 or more total points if the overcall is less than 2H, or 11 or more total points if it is greater than or equal to 2H.

New Minor Forcing: Like Checkback Stayman, this convention helps you find five-three fits in your major or four-four fits in an unbid major when you are responder. If the bidding has gone 1X-1Y-1NT to you with no intervention, and you have at least 10 High-Card Points, and you have either exactly five cards in your major or exactly four cards in hearts after 1X-1S-1NT, and you are playing New Minor Forcing, and you are not five-five or better in the majors, you bid your better unbid minor to search for a four-four major fit. Your partner will bid 2H with four hearts if hearts are unbid. Otherwise, your partner will bid your major with three-card support, jumping to show a maximum. Otherwise, your partner will bid NT with a stopper in the unbid suit, jumping to 3NT with a maximum. Otherwise, your partner will rebid the suit of the opening bid or will bid the “unbid” minor to show a four-card suit.

New Suit Response to Partner's Overcall Forcing: Playing this convention, after your left-hand opponent opens the bidding and partner overcalls, your bid of a new suit is forcing for at least one round, and shows a five-card suit and 10 or more total points. You may or may not have support for partner's suit.

New Suit Response to Partner's Overcall Non-Forcing: Playing this convention, after your left-hand opponent opens the bidding and partner overcalls, your bid of a new suit at the one- or two-level shows a good six-card suit and less than 10 total points, denies three-card support for partner's suit, and is non-forcing. (Your bid of a new suit at the three-level is still forcing.)

New Suit Response to Partner's Overcall Non-Forcing Constructive: Playing this convention, after your left-hand opponent opens the bidding and partner overcalls, your bid of a new suit at the one- or two-level shows a good six-card suit and 8 to 12 total points, denies three-card support for partner's suit, and is non-forcing. (Your bid of a new suit at the three-level is still forcing.)

Ogust: In response to your weak two-bid, when your partner bids 2NT, the Ogust convention allows you to clarify your hand with one bid. Bid 3NT with AKQxxx or better in your suit; bid an Ogust 3D with 5-8 High-Card Points and two of the top three honors in your suit; bid an Ogust 3C with 5-8 High-Card Points and at most one of the top three honors in your suit; bid an Ogust 3S with 9 or more High-Card Points and two of the top three honors in your suit; or bid an Ogust 3H with 9 or more High-Card Points and at most one of the top three honors in your suit.

Preemptive Reraises: When you open the bidding with one of a major, after partner raises to two of your major, if your right-hand opponent passes, make a Preemptive Reraise to three of your major with up to 16 Total Points and at least six cards in your major suit. When you open the bidding with one of a major, after partner raises to two of your major, if your right-hand opponent bids below three of your major, make a Preemptive Reraise to three of your major with 15 to 16 Total Points and fewer than four cards in the opponent's suit, or with up to 16 Total Points and at least six cards in your major suit.

Puppet Stayman 2C after 1NT: When partner opens 1NT, bid a Puppet Stayman 2C with 23 or more joint High-Card Points and at least one three- or four-card major. If the hand contains a five-card or longer major, do not bid Puppet Stayman unless your major suit length is exactly 5-4.

Puppet Stayman 3C after 1NT: When you play this convention, you have your choice of several different ways to bid Stayman after partner's 1NT opening bid. You can either bid 2C as Stayman or you can bid 3C, forcing to game, as Puppet Stayman. The difference is that Puppet Stayman focuses primarily on finding a five-card major in partner's hand. It is right to bid 3C as Puppet Stayman when: you do not have a four-card major, but you have a three-card major, and you believe that a 5-3 major-suit fit would play significantly better than notrump; or you have a 4-3-3-3 hand with a four-card major, and want to play in 3NT unless you have a 5-4 major-suit fit; or you have 4-4-3-2 distribution with a concentration of points in your doubleton, and want to play in 3NT unless partner prefers to play in a major. In response to your Puppet Stayman 3C bid, partner will respond 3D with no five-card major but one or both four-card majors; 3H with five hearts; 3S with five spades; or 3NT with at most three cards in each major. After 1NT-3C-3D, bid 3H with four spades, 3S with four hearts, or 3NT with neither.

Puppet Stayman after 2NT: When partner opens 2NT, and you have at least 3 High-Card Points, and you have at least one three-card or four-card major, and you don't have a five-card major, you may bid 3C as Puppet Stayman. Partner will bid a five-card major if holding one; otherwise, holding one or both four-card majors, partner will bid 3D; otherwise, partner will bid 3NT.

Redouble For the Minors, Systems On: This convention allows you to play Stayman, Jacoby Transfers, and your full Notrump bidding system, even after the opponents have made a penalty double of your partner's 1NT opening bid. It also provides you a way to escape 1NT-X to a minor-suit contract at the two-level. To escape 1NT-X you should Redouble. Your redouble will force partner to bid 2C, and then you can pass with a single-suited club hand or bid 2D with a single-suited diamond hand. Otherwise, all Notrump Systems remain unchanged. 2C is still Stayman, 2D is still a Jacoby Transfer, etc.

Responsive Doubles: If partner doubles an opening bid of one of a suit, and right-hand opponent raises the opener’s suit (through 4D), a double is for takeout. The double shows length in the unbid suits, and puts the ball back in partner’s court. Similarly, if partner overcalls the opening bid, and right-hand opponent raises the opener’s suit, a double is for takeout and shows the two unbid suits. The minimum strength required for a responsive double depends on the level of right-hand opponent’s bid. Bridge Baron’s minimum requirement is 6 points at the two-level, 8 points at the three-level, and 10 points at the four-level.

Reverse Drury: In response to an opening bid of one of a major in third seat or fourth seat, a Reverse Drury 2C bid by responder (who passed originally) asks opener to bid 2D with a strong opening hand, and to make any other bid otherwise.

RKC 1430: A 4NT RKC 1430 bid asks partner about Keycards, just as Roman Keycard Blackwood does. But the 5C and 5D responses are switched: the 5C response shows 1 or 4 Keycards, and the 5D response shows 3 or 0 Keycards. (The 5H and 5S responses are unchanged.) The mnemonic 1430 is used because 1430 is the duplicate score for six of a major, vulnerable, making exactly.

Robinson: The Robinson notrump defense is an aggressive notrump defense designed to be able to describe all possible distributional hand-types and still play at the two-level. Playing Robinson after your opponents open 1NT, 2C shows both majors, 2D shows a single-suited major, 2H shows hearts and a minor, 2S shows spades and a minor, and Double shows a 5+ card minor and a 4-card major. After you bid 2C, partner will choose his best major. After you bid 2D, partner will bid 2H asking you to pass or correct. After you double, partner will bid 2C to suggest that you pass with clubs or correct to 2D with diamonds, or partner will bid 2D if he wants to play in a major. 2H and 2S in response to partner's double show a natural 5+ card suit of your own. In response to a Robinson 2H or 2S bid showing the bid major suit and a minor suit, responder should pass with major suit tolerance or bid 2NT asking partner for his/her minor suit. To make a Robinson overcall you must have at least 10 total points and 8 high-card points.

Roman Keycard Blackwood: A 4NT Roman Keycard Blackwood bid asks partner about Keycards. The Keycards are the four Aces, and the King of the trump suit. If no trump suit has been agreed, the last suit bid is the trump suit. If no suits have been bid, the four Aces are the only four Keycards. Partner bids 5C with 0 or 3 Keycards, 5D with 1 or 4 Keycards, 5H with 2 or 5 Keycards but no Queen of the trump suit, and 5S with 2 or 5 Keycards and the Queen of the trump suit.

Rosenkranz Redoubles: When your left-hand opponent makes an opening bid, partner makes an overcall, and your right-hand opponent makes a Negative Double, a redouble by you would show an honor doubleton in partner's suit.

Sandwich Notrump: After left-hand opponent opens, partner passes, and right-hand opponent responds, you may make a Sandwich 1NT overcall with 3-10 Total Points and four or more cards in each of the two unbid suits.

Semi-Forcing Notrump: This convention is very similar to the Forcing 1NT over 1H/1S convention. A 1NT bid in response to a one-level opening major suit bid is forcing for one round, unless the opener has a minimum opening bid that is balanced (5-3-3-2 shape). With that hand type, opener passes. Otherwise, opener rebids the major if it is a six-card suit, shows a four-card heart suit if the opening bid was one spade, rebids 2NT with notrump distribution and 16-18 high-card points, rebids 3NT with notrump distribution and 19-21 high-card points, or rebids the better minor.

Short Club Openings: When playing Short Club Openings, a 1C opening bid only guarantees two or more clubs, while a 1D opening bid guarantees four or more diamonds. A 1C opening bid may be made with two clubs only if holding four cards in each major and three diamonds. However, a 1C opening bid is made with three clubs in all hands with no five-card major and no four-card diamond suit.

Short-Suit Game Tries: After your 1H or 1S opening is raised to 2H or 2S, with 16-18 Total Points, you may make a Short-Suit Game Try. Make the cheapest bid in the suit in which you have a singleton or void; if you have no singleton or void, you may bid 2NT as a game try.

Smolen: This convention enables the opening 1NT bidder to become the declarer in the responder’s long major suit. With five-four or six-four in the major suits, the responder, after receiving a 2D reply to the 2C Stayman bid, jumps to 3 of his or her four-card major. Opener may then raise responder’s other major with three-card support or bid 3NT with a doubleton. Responder, with a six-card major suit, may bid four of the suit immediately below the long major as a further transfer bid.

Snapdragon Doubles: When your left-hand opponent makes an opening bid, partner overcalls, and right-hand opponent introduces a new suit, your Snapdragon Double promises at least five cards in the unbid suit, 8 or more points, and tolerance for partner's suit (exactly two cards if partner's suit is a major, and two or three cards if partner's suit is a minor).

Soloway Jump Shifts: Playing Soloway Jump Shifts, after your partner opens the bidding in a suit at the one-level and your RHO passes, a jump-shift response into a new suit shows one of three types of hands: 1) A five-card suit, 18-19 high-card points, and a balanced hand. 2) A six-card or longer suit, good enough to play opposite a singleton, and 17 or more Total Points. 3) A good five-card or longer suit, with 17 or more Total Points and support for partner's opening suit (four-card or longer support if partner opened a minor, or three-card or longer support if partner opened a major).
