 So in this Falcon 4 BMS tutorial I'm going to walk you through how to use the
FCR or Fire Control Radar. The FCR is used to lock up targets both in the air
and on the ground. For purposes of this tutorial I'm just going to go over the
using it to lock up air targets. So where is the FCR? By default it's going to
be on your left multifunction display or MFD, which is on the left side of your
cockpit. So we're talking about this guy right here. And the FCR has many
features. We're not going to go over everything, we're just going to go over the
basics. So the main things that you're going to be looking at is you have the
top left of the FCR where it says 4-0, that's the default range. That is telling
you how far the radar is scanning. The closer the radar beam is, the lower the
altitude you can scan. The farther away something is, the easier it is to
detect. And what you should do is you should imagine the radar as a searchlight
or a beam coming out and it's really thin the closer you are to the aircraft and
it spreads out. So you use these buttons here to increase or decrease the radar
range. Under that are some buttons that will customize how wide the radar beam
is, don't worry about that. The bottom left right here, these six digits in
white numbers, that is the bullseye of the target at the radar cursor. Below
that is your current bullseye. Now in the center here, we see this blue
artificial horizon and then we also have these two vertical white lines. That's
your radar selector, radar cursor, radar designator, whatever you want to call
it. That's what you have to, that's what you slew around using your arrow keys
to lock up targets. Now there's two sets of numbers to the right side of the
radar cursor. Here is, on the top in white is the maximum altitude that you can
scan at and at the bottom in red is the minimum altitude that you can scan at.
And you can increase and decrease the range by pressing F5 and F7 respectively,
which is to raise or to decrease your antenna tilt. So the antenna tilt controls
the altitude in which you can scan. It does not control the range. The range as
I went over before is by these top left number here, that's the range. Now on
the right side of the FCR, these are data link controls. Now each number
corresponds to the player in your flight or the aircraft in your flight. So one
would be the flight lead, two would be his wingman, three would be the element
two leader, and four would be his wingman. And what the coolest thing about it
is that you can actually, if you lock something up on the FCR, you can instantly
send the position of that contact to anyone in your flight by clicking on these
buttons. So if you locked up a bandit, inbound or whatever, you can lock it up
and then press, let's say you're the flight lead and you wanted your wingman to
see it for whatever reason, you click two. And it will say data on his screen
and he'll instantly see it on his FCR. Now what's also important, what's another
important feature of this screen is these top buttons here. Most of them are
irrelevant, you don't really need to worry about it. The most important one is
where it says RWS. That is telling you the radar mode. There's multiple modes.
RWS stands for range while scan and it has the fastest update rate and it has
the largest cone area. But it does not provide any situational information
unlike another mode called TWS or track while scan. So if you were to click on
these buttons, which I can't do right now because I have the game paused, it
would switch between various radar modes. The only ones that we're going to
cover right now is RWS and TWS because they're the most used radar modes and
they're something you're going to use constantly. RWS is if you want to get a
target, if you want to acquire a target quickly, you don't have time for TWS.
TWS in my opinion is the best mode for general usage because unlike RWS where
radar contacts will just show up as white squares, on TWS up to 10 targets will
be automatically softlocked by your radar and what that does is it will tell you
their attitude or bearing and it will tell you their altitude. Attitude and
altitude. And that's a really good situational awareness because just by
glancing at it you can tell if an enemy aircraft has turned in on you, is flying
away, stuff like that. The altitude is always really important because if
they're really low you know that you're about to lose them perhaps and this is
all things that you wouldn't get on RWS unless you softlock various contacts.
That's the basics of the anatomy of the FCR. Now we're going to go over using it
in practice so I'm going to unpause the game. I have some large lumbering air
contacts over here. They're bombers. Yeah they're over here. Okay now what we've
done here is we've locked up a bomber that is off foreside right now. I'm going
to go ahead and turn on the HMCS for a moment so I can show you where it is.
Right there. Oh do I not have HMCS? I might not have HMCS in this model. Okay I
don't have HMCS but it's right there. You can see it. It's a bomber or some sort
of, yeah it's a TU-87 bear it looks like. Now I locked that up and the reason
why I did that is I want to show you some symbology here on the FCR. Now what
you're seeing is a number of things okay. These blue vertical lines show you
what your radar is currently scanning so when I press TMS up to lock up the
target, the radar beam shortens so it can acquire the target and you can get
some more information. Now see these white squares? Those are radar contacts. We
don't know what altitude they're at. We don't know anything because we're on
RWS. Now if you scroll, if you slew your radar onto them and press TMS up you'll
lock onto them. Okay. Now when you lock onto the target it turns from these
white squares into this yellow triangle. And the yellow triangle has a line
coming out of it on one side of the triangle, on one edge of the triangle. That
is showing you where the nose of the aircraft is. So right now you can see this
is like a, a triangle facing, you know, down left which means it's flying sort
of towards me but also to a flank. Okay. And the number to the right, or the
number under it 10, that's the altitude of the target. The number to the right
of that where it says 05 in blue, that's the minimum altitude. So let's say this
target starts diving. I won't be able to, if he dives below 5,000 I'm going to
start losing him. At that point this would flash red and there would be X's
across it. So that's just for your own situational awareness. This circle here
and all this stuff, this is for the aim ram which I'm going to go over in a
moment. We're going to get back to that in a moment. Let's go over the numbers
at the top. These are really important. So this top right number here where it
says plus 51K, that is the closure rate. And what a closure rate is, it's how
fast you're approaching or moving away from the target. So if it's positive then
you're moving towards the target, if it's negative you're moving away from the
target. Now it's in knots. So right now I'm closing on this target at 512 knots.
The number to the left of that is the target's airspeed in knots. So it's going
at 379 knots. The number all the way to the left where it says 270, that is the
heading of the aircraft in degrees magnetic. So this, it's pretty obvious to
see, this is a really good example actually. Since he's turned down left he's on
exact 270 bearing. Now if I were to get closer to this guy, if I were to get
closer to this guy, I would know, I might know what sort of aircraft he is
because if you hardlock a, or TMS up twice a air contact, this space here might
be filled in with some information. And that's because the radar can interrogate
the air contact. The radar can interrogate contacts which means it can basically
scan them and determine what they are. It's not really reliable but it can save
your ass sometimes because if you don't have time to declare a target with
AWACS, see if it's hostile, and you don't really have time to visually look at
it, you can lock it up and then it might tell you what it is. So if you see
these air contacts that are flying towards you going like with 900 knots of
closure distance, they're probably hostile but you need to make sure before you
fire so it might say like MIG 29 might pop up in that space. And then you know
it's hostile, you don't even need to declare it. Now, let's go to the HUD for a
moment. So, when you lock something up on the radar, the range for the target is
going to be right here, F0101.1 which means it's 10.1 nautical miles away. We're
going to go over the other symbology on the HUD in regards to the FCR once we go
over the aim ram, which we're about to. So let's unpause the sim and let's
switch it into TWS mode and quickly go over that. So I'm going to come down
here, I'm going to click where it says RWS. Oh, I do have a H. I do have a HMCS
so I just paused so it didn't update, I forgot about that. Now we're in TWS
mode. What you're going to find now in TWS mode is that all these targets, they
appear as if they're locked up because they are being locked up by my radar.
They're all being soft locked. They're all being soft locked up to 10 radar
contacts. And I can see the bearing, the relative bearing of all of them and I
can see their altitude. This is extremely, extremely useful information. So
you're going to want to keep in TWS mode. Oh, one disadvantage of TWS mode is
that not only does it refresh lower but it also has a thinner radar beam and
because of that the altitudes that you can scan would be significantly lower
than RWS. See right now we can scan between 14,000 and 5,000 on this contact.
Now, if I switch it, I'm going to switch it to RWS and you're going to see how
it's going to change. 12,000 and 5,000 compared to 12,000 and 7,000 for the RWS.
So now let's go over the AMRAAMs. So I'm going to switch back into navigation
mode. This way we can switch to AMRAAMs properly. So what's an AMRAAM? An AMRAAM
is an AIM-120. It's an air-to-air missile that has a range of about 15 miles.
It's radar guided. You have to use your FCR in order to use the AMRAAM. It's not
infrared like the AIM-9, MAVERICK, or correction, Sidewinder. It needs to, it
doesn't go off of a tone or anything like that. It needs to be radar guided. So
in order to select the AMRAAM, you want to cycle into air-to-air master mode,
which is this button on the FCR where it says AA. You want to cycle into air-to-
air master mode. And then once you're in air-to-air master mode, you can switch
between weapons by either your SMS page or by clicking on AA again. And what
you'll find is that at the bottom left of your HUD where it shows the current
mode that you're in, right now I'm in navigation mode, that will switch to MRM
where it says NAV, that will switch to MRM or SRM. MRM are AMRAAMs and SRM are
Sidewinders. Okay. So let's go ahead and switch into air-to-air master mode. And
we see immediately there's some change in symbology here. We have, it says 2 MRM
and there's also a circle which basically shows the acquisition area of the
AMRAAM. Now watch what happens when we lock something up. So what we're going to
do to lock something up is we're going to find it on our radar and then press
TMS up. Okay. So I'm going to unpause it and lock this guy up. Okay. I press TMS
up once. Okay. That's considered to be a soft lock. Now at this point, you're
going to get all the information here at the top, the closure rate, the
airspeed, the bearing, the airplane type. You're also going to get a new thing
here on the right side. Okay. That is this square bracket thing. That's called
an indexer. And this is telling you when you have a good, it's telling you when
you have a firing solution. Okay. So we're just going to go over this really
quickly. Now it's also on the right side of your HUD, as you can see here. This
thing right here, this is the indexer. It's the exact same thing that's on the
FCR. It's just in both spots. This way you don't have to look down when you're
in combat. Now there's a bunch of symbols here, okay, on the indexer. Now if you
take anything away from this video at all, just I'm going to start going into
some terminology that might confuse people. But if you're going to take anything
away from this video, just know that when you see this little, see this greater
than symbol right here? That's called a carrot, okay. When the carrot is below
this circle, you have a pretty good shot. And if the carrot's inside the
indexer, then it's a really, really good shot. Okay. So if you take anything
away from this, just take that away. Now I'm going to go into specifically the
components of the indexer, okay. This triangle up here, it's part of the
indexer, it might be hard to see in the video. This triangle, that is the
maximum aerodynamic range of the aim ram for a target acquisition. So if this
target that I'm firing at was coming at me in a straight line and did not make
any attempts to evade whatsoever, I could kill him at that point, okay. Now that
never happens, but let's say there was a slow moving cargo aircraft you wanted
to kill, he's moving on a bearing, he's not taking any base of action
whatsoever, you might want to take a shot at that point, and that would be
considered to be a Fox 3 long shot, okay. Now that's not ideal though, and I
wouldn't recommend that, especially if you're firing on a combat aircraft that's
going to actually try to evade you. Now the next component of the FCR, I mean of
the indexer, is this circle, okay. And that circle is the optimum range. That's
like the maximum optimum range that you can fire at, okay. It's not the best
shot, but if you want to take a shot pretty decently, excuse me, if you want to
take a pretty decent shot, it will account for the target jinking a little bit
or trying to turn a little bit. It's not 100% chance of killing it, but if the
carrot is on that circle or below it, then the target can make some evasive
maneuvers and you'll probably still kill it. Now the next feature of the indexer
is the top of the indexer here, this horizontal white line, okay. This
horizontal white line. That is the range probability of intercept, sorry I'm
looking down at my notes here. That is the range probability of intercept. If
the carrot is at that bracket or below, then you have a very high chance of
killing it. If the carrot is at that bracket or below, then you have a very high
chance of killing the target even if it tries to evade, okay. That's like an
ideal shot, it's called a Fox 3 medium, okay. Now this rectangle that's inside
the indexer, that is called, that's the range for turn and run, okay. So above
that point, above this bracket, if the target were to do a split S and burn away
from you, and it was really fast and really maneuverable, there's a high chance
that it would defeat your missile, okay. Like if you were to fire on another
F-16 that was really maneuverable, could do a split S, get up to like 700 knots
and get away from you, the chance of killing it above that line would be very
difficult. Now if you fire inside this indexer, inside this bracket, okay, range
turn and run, then you're almost guaranteed to kill the target, there's almost
no way it can escape unless it's like a dud missile or it does something insane
or it hits into a mountain or something. Now the very bottom of the indexer is
the minimum engagement range. If the carrot goes below this bracket, then if you
were to fire your aim ram, it would almost always miss. So, we don't want to do
that. And at that point, you'd either switch to side winders, which is a short
range heat seeking missile, or you'd switch to guns, depending on how close they
are and what their closure rate is and stuff like that. So, again, just to go
over this very briefly, if the carrot is inside anywhere below the circle or on
the circle, it's a good shot. So if you're going to take anything away from it,
just take that away. Now, what is the procedure for engaging the target? Okay,
so what you're going to do is you're going to turn into the target until this
big circle here is big. Okay, this circle will expand when you have a really
good shot. If it's blinking and it's big, then you have a really good shot. You
want to fire from boresight if possible. And what that means is the boresight is
like the HUD, it's the aircraft's frontal position. If you fire, if the target
is on your boresight, your chances of killing are much higher. So, we see here
at the top of the HUD, this little cross with a line coming out of it, there's
two zero next to it. That's the gun cross, okay? That's telling me where my guns
are pointing, but that's not really the important thing for this exercise. The
important thing is that it tells me the bearing to the current target I have
locked up. So, the lines go into the left and it says two zero, which means the
target is 20 degrees magnetic off my nose. He's either this guy right here, he's
probably this guy, but if he's not, he might be this guy, okay? So, what I want
to do before I fire is I want to turn into the target and I want to check my
indexer again, make sure it's good, and then I want to hold down pickle. Now,
this is really important, you have to hold down pickle. If you just press it,
nothing will happen. You have to give it consent, you need to hold it down for
about a second, okay? Now, I think I've went over everything with the indexer.
Oh, there's a few more things I want to go over. So, the, so you, I'm not going
to go over lofting. Okay, one really important feature is the number next to the
carrot, okay? The number next to the carrot is the closure rate. So, if you want
to know how fast you're closing on the target, don't look down into your FCR,
that's the worst thing you can do because that's going to mess up your
situational awareness. Because it's right here, it's at the top right of the
FCR, like we went over before. Don't go, don't look at your FCR, okay? I want
you to look at your, look at the HUD. It's right next to the carrot on the HUD,
okay? 25. That's the closure rate, which means I'm slightly gaining on the
target, not much. Okay, 25 knots of closure. So, I think I went over everything.
I'm going to turn now and engage this target. I'm going to unpause the game, I'm
going to turn left on the boresight, you're going to see the circle expand. And
then I'm going to hold down pickle and I'm going to fire. Now, this is going to
be a Fox 3 medium, it might be a close when I turn on the boresight. So, here
goes. Okay, now I have visual on the target, okay? This is the square here with
the cross in it. That is just indicating to me where the target is. And that's
telling me that that's the target that I have locked up. Now, at this point, if
we look at the indexer, it's right above the, whatchamacallit, the range
probability of intercepts. Now, I could fire right now and probably kill this
thing, but it's a bomber. But if this was a really fast maneuvering bandit, I'd
probably want to wait a few moments until I got within range turn and run. But
for now, we're just going to pickle off right now. Splash. It's going down.
We'll give them another one for good luck. See the missile flying in, you see it
right there? See, that's another thing that I didn't go over is that aim rams
take a lead pursuit. They always try to fly in front of the target or to come
down on top of it, so watch. Boom. That's how to use the aim ram. So one thing I
forgot to go over with the aim ram is pit bull. When a aim ram goes pit bull, it
no longer needs radar guidance from the guiding aircraft. So at that point, you
can unlock the target and select a new target and fire onto that target. But
until that point, you have to keep the radar locked onto the target in order to
ensure maximum probability of kill. Now, your pilot, your character will
automatically say pit bull. At that point, you can lock onto a new target. And
I'm just going to mention this for advanced players. I'm not going to show you
how to do it. It's beyond the scope of this video. But it is possible to engage
multiple air targets at a time. Multiple launches in the air at the same time
and have them guided. In order to do that, you have to be constantly providing
guidance information to the missile. And the best way to do that is in TWS mode.
And in TWS mode, if you lock onto a target and you fire, you can then press TMS
right and switch to the next target in the group and fire. Next one, fire. But
at any time, if you break the lock completely or if you exit TWS mode, all of
the missiles will become unguided. So I'm just going to mention that for the
advanced user. If you want to try to engage multiple targets at a time, go for
it. But we're not going to go over that in this video. Now, the next thing that
we're going to go over is the AIM-9. The AIM-9 is known as a Sidewinder. And it
has many designations. You have the AIM-9 Mike, which is the most common
Sidewinder type. And it came out after Vietnam. It's an all aspect missile that
can attack aircraft from any angle. You have the AIM-9 Papa, which is a Vietnam-
era missile. And it's only really effective from rear aspects. So you have to be
behind the target in order to hit them effectively. Then you have the AIM-9X.
And the AIM-9X is the best Sidewinder available. It's brand new. It only was
developed a few years ago. And the AIM-9X can actually fire off boresight. So if
you see something to your left, you can hit it like 70 degrees off of boresight.
And it also is extremely accurate, extremely fast, and very hard to defeat. And
it's resistant to flares. So the AIM-9X is great. Now, let's talk about the
basics of the AIM-9. The AIM-9 is an infrared or heat guided missile. It does
not use the radar. So you can use the radar to locate and orient yourself
towards the target. You can use the radar to point the seeker head of the AIM-9
at a target. But the seeker head is ultimately what is the most important aspect
of the AIM-9. The seeker head is a heat seeking device that detects ambient heat
temperature and it produces a growl. You'll hear like a buzzing noise or a
growl. When that growl is really violent and really heavy, then you have a good
shot. And that's how you determine if you have a good shot. Now, there is going
to be an index or just like the AIM-RAM, but it's only a relative thing. If you
don't have a really good tone, it will not hit the target. And that's a really
important point. I mean, you can have the indexer all the way down, Fox 2 close,
a really close shot like 2 or 3 miles out. It's still going to miss unless that
tone is really hot. Now, there's two ways to ensure that your tone is going to
be good. You have cooling the seeker head and uncaging. When you cool the seeker
head, you actually release a chemical that cools it a bit and it makes it way
more sensitive. And you want to do that when you're just about, when you're
attacking the target, but you're not on top of it yet. That's when you want to
cool the seeker head. So right now in this example, there's a bunch of bombers
that are within visual range. At this point, I would cool the seeker head and
I'd acquire them and shoot them down. The second thing is uncaging. The seeker
head by default is caged. It's restricted. When you uncage the seeker head, it
becomes very, very sensitive. So in combination, if you cool the seeker head and
you uncage it, it becomes very sensitive and you'll get really good tones. Now,
you don't have to uncage it. It will fire and it will track if it's caged and if
it's warm, if it's not cooled, but it will be much less effective. So the key
point here is you want to try to uncage it. You want to cool it if you have that
option. If you don't have that option, if it's an emergency or whatever, you can
shoot it off. And unlike the aim ram, you don't have to hold down the pickle
button. You just fire it and then that's it. So I'm going to unpause this. I'm
just going to switch to air to air mode real quick. Okay, so now I'm in air to
air mode, air to air master mode. And this is the SMS page. Now, this is the key
feature that I'm going to go over for the aim nine where it says cool. Okay, if
you click that button, it's going to cool the warhead. Rather sorry, I already
cooled it. So this sort of cheating. So right now it's warm. So you see here all
the tone is like, you know, it's it's grumble, but it's not that it's not that
violent. Now, if I cool it, which I'm going to do now, you're out became a lot
more aggressive. Now, let's go over the what you're going to find when you when
you select air to air master mode, you select the side on it. You're going to
have this circle with a diamond in it. Okay, this is representing the secret
head of the aim nine. And if that if that diamond goes over an engine or a
really hot object, it's going to growl violently and it becomes really loud.
Then you have an ideal shot. So what we're going to do now is we're going to
lock up one of these bombers that I will sign on is they're over there. I'm
going to lock up these bombers on the FCR and then I'm going to attack them. I'm
going to walk you through each step. So I've already cooled my warheads and at
this point we're going to prosecute an attack. At this range, you'd probably be
using dogfight mode, which I'm going to go over in a moment. This is like not an
ideal range to use the FCR. If you can visually see the target this close, then
you're almost always going to use dogfight mode. Okay. So I have this bomber
flying away from me. We can see it here to the exhaust from its engine. And also
our good friend, the indexer is back at the exact same symbology as the aim rim.
Okay. It doesn't have the triangle in the circle, but other than that, it's the
same note next to the carat. You have the closure rate. Okay. Then you have the
maximum ideal range, the most deadly range, and then the minimum range. Same
concepts. Also same stuff on your FCR. You know, it's all pretty much the same.
Now, at this point, I might want to uncage the seeker head. When you're closer
than five miles, you want to uncage the seeker head. So I'm going to do that by
pressing U and you're going to hear the tone is going to get a lot more violent.
Here it out became more like a higher tempo tone. Now, I theoretically could
shoot now, but it's not ideal. I want to wait for the indexer to get closer to
the carat. But that tone is really hot. I could probably hit him at this range.
And I see I just caged it again, uncaged it. We're within three miles now. We're
almost to an ideal range. Indexer expands. Closure rate is expanding. Now
there's a good shot. Fox two. Fox two. Boom. I hit him with another one. Fox
two. Altitude. Altitude. Altitude. So that's the aim nine, the aim rim and the
FCR. The next thing we're going to go over is dogfight mode. OK, dogfight mode
is a visual radar mode in which you can. Bring a target into your boresight and
then lock onto it immediately and automatically. It's an ideal mode when you can
visually acquire a target such as this guy here. You can visually see him and
he's too close to get on the FCR. You're not going to have the time or you're
not going to. You don't want to lose situational awareness of moving around,
looking down, getting him on the FCR. It's much better just to switch to
dogfight mode, get him into the boresight and lock him up. Dogfight mode is
ideal for when you see targets merging on you. And you need to respond quickly
and accurately without any sort of second guessing and while keeping your head
in the game. Now I'm going to unpause. I'm going to switch into dogfight mode.
In order to switch into dogfight mode, you have to press D on your keyboard. So
I'm going to unpause. Dogfight mode is on. Now what dogfight mode does is it
declutters your HUD. All you're going to have is some basic things here like
airspeed, altitude, your bullseye, telling you your arms. You have the seeker
head for the AIM-9 which is selected automatically when you go into dogfight
mode. How many G's you're pulling. And your gun cross, decluttered without any
extra crap around it. And an eggs funnel which is a radar guided gun mode for
your cannon used to shoot down at air contacts. Which is also automatically
selected when you go into dogfight mode. And no rad which means no radar. When
you go into dogfight mode your radar is turned off. Turned off automatically.
And the reason for this is because you're going to be able to see the target.
And the reason for this is that when you're going into dogfight mode, more often
than not you're going to be ambushing a target. Or you're going to be so close
to it that you don't want him to know that he's getting locked up. Otherwise
he's going to jink immediately without warning. Okay so I'm going to unpause the
game. When I press TMS up it's going to re-enable the radar and then it's going
to create a T down the middle of my HUD. All I need to do to lock something up
is to bring the T under the target and press TMS up and it locks on
automatically. So I'm going to unpause and show you guys that. So right now we
have no radar, unpausing. Turn my radar on by pressing TMS up. And it locks on
automatically. Now when you lock onto something it has some new symbology that
you wouldn't have in other modes. I'm not going to go over guns that much in
depth right now but just a very brief introduction. In order to kill this target
with guns it's recommended that you turn your wings to be on this line right
here. And it's also what you would do is you would get the aircraft's wings in
between this funnel. And then once the aircraft or the target is on top of this
white circle here called the dot of death, you can fire and kill it. That's all
I'm going to go into about guns for now. Other than that pretty standard
symbology that we've already seen has the indexer here for the sidewinder.
Surrounding the target is a new symbology. This is a circle. The circle sweeps
counter-clockwise into dots, into a dotted line. When it's completely a dotted
line then you're going to be so close that you're either going to lose contact
with the target or be unable to engage it with weapons. It starts, if you're far
out, it will start completely solid like this right here. And the closer you are
the more dotted it will be and it will keep peeling away as you get closer or
the target closes on you. Now at this point I'm at the, almost at the minimum
range for the sidewinder so I'm just going to unpause, quickly uncage the
maverick and fire, or correction, sidewinder and fire. But that's the basic
concept. You just bring the target into your HUD and press TMS up. And more
often than not it will lock on automatically. BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! Give him
another one for good luck. Going down now. Not going to survive that. Dead.
That's basically the dogfight mode and one note that I will make is that you can
select the aim ram in dogfight mode. All you have to do is just cycle air to air
weapons by pressing your AA key or by cycling air to air weapons via keybinding.
You can select the aim ram. I mean it's not designed for the aim ram but you can
use it with the aim ram fine. The final thing I'm going to show you guys with
air to air combat is I'm going to show you the HMCS. The HMCS is a helmet
mounted HUD that your character has on if you're in F16. It allows you to look
around and you'll have a HUD on your screen. And it's being displayed on your
helmet. So in order to activate the system you have to go down here under your
ECM panel. You're going to have this switch. It's in a panel called HMCS. You've
got to switch this to the right. Now the more it is to the right the darker the
HUD will be. So if you have it on just one setting right you can barely see the
HUD when you go up and look at it. If it's all the way to the right you can see
it. It's very dark. So I'm going to put it all the way to the right just for
testing purposes. I'm going to unpause the game so you can see it. So this is
the HMCS. It shows you some pretty crucial information. Like for instance it
will show you the current bearings whatever you're looking at. Right now it's
stuck because I have the game paused. It tells you your current bullseye, what
weapon you have selected, airspeed, altitude, range and heading to whatever.
Whatever you're looking at. It will tell you how many G's you're pulling. What
it also shows you is some other very important symbols. It will actually show
you the gimbal limits of your Sidewinder. So if you're looking for a gimbal
that's going to be a little bit more complex. It will show you the gimbal limits
of your Sidewinder. So you probably can't see it until I zoom in. See that
little diamond? We went over this before. That is the sensor head for your
Sidewinder. Now notice how it's not following my HUD. And the reason for that is
that that is the gimbal limit. In other words that's the maximum limit of where
the Sidewinder can look. And it will move with my HUD. It will move with my HUD.
But it won't go past a certain degree. I think it's like 30 degrees or so of
foresight. That's for the A9 Mike at least. For the A9 X-Ray you can fire really
far up foresight. Now the coolest thing about this mode is that if you're in
dogfight mode and you have the HMCS up. You can actually lock up targets just by
looking at them. And the way you do that is you look at them and then you press
TMS up. So watch. I have to hold down TMS up. So I'm going to unpause. What
you're going to see is holding down TMS up. See that circle? Now I just move it
onto one of the lockups and it locks them up. I'm going to let this guy go off
of foresight so I can do it again. Hold down the circle. Then you release it
when you want to lock onto something. Simple as that. Lock. It will even show
you on the HMCS the bearing to the target. See how that line is moving? This
line right here shows you the bearing to the target. So all you have to do is
follow that line direction. It will bring you right to the target visually. Now
what it will do as well is unpause as I unlock the target. Now it will also show
you gimbal in for your radar. So I'm going to use my radar here. It's
designating and I can't go off of that line. See how the oval turned to an X?
Oval with an X in it. See how the oval turned to an X? Oval with an X in it.
That's because that's the gimbal limits for my radar. Because again I want to
remind you guys that it's a searchlight. So I can't go above the searchlight,
turn it to an X. I can't go beyond the searchlight, off the flank. And there's
limits. So it shows you the radar limits. It also shows you the heat sensor
limits. Now I can lock onto anything just by looking at it. Now let's say you're
in a dogfight or whatever and you want to get rid of the HMCS. It's really
annoying you, but you don't want to go down to the switch. You can do that fine.
All you have to do to get rid of this HMCS is just hold down DMS down. It will
go away just like that. If you want to come back on you just hold down DMS down
again. Turn it on, turn it off. It's going to prosecute an attack using the HMCS
and then this video is pretty much over. Good tone, I'm using my Sidewinder
here. I'm going to go up foresight just so we can look at it. All foresight.
It's almost at the gimbal limits here. It's trying to go low to evade me. It's
going to work out for you buddy. Boom. So that concludes this video. I just
wanted to show you guys the basics of air combat. Please let me know if this was
helpful at all. Okay, welcome to another Falcon 4 BMS tutorial. In this video
we're going to be going over the ground-based FCR, attacking ground targets and
buildings, CCIP, CCRP, and dive-toss bombing modes. So before we start we're
just going to go over some basic terminology. CCIP is a visual bombing mode in
which you don't use the FCR. You're just going to be looking at the target and
visually attacking it. And it stands for constantly computed impact point. It's
the most common bombing mode if you're attacking moving objects such as tanks,
vehicles. If you're doing precision bombing on individual point targets you
would use CCIP. The other most common bombing mode is CCRP. And CCRP stands for
constantly computed release point. And the main difference between CCRP and CCIP
is that CCRP you use your FCR, you're going to see radar contacts on your FCR,
you're going to lock them up, and you're typically going to be doing it from
higher altitudes of 15,000 or greater. It's used for bombing pre-planned or pre-
brief targets. It's used for attacking targets that are far too dangerous to
attack from lower altitudes. Where air defenses or terrain makes that difficult
or impossible. It's mainly used for, like I said, pre-brief targets. For
instance, you have a mission where you have to blow up a power plant, nuclear
reactor, a barrack, something like that. You would set a target's viewpoint onto
the target. Reference it through your DED and then you would drop bombs on it
from high altitude. CCRP is a very finicky release system. It's a very finicky
radar system. If you're not flying perfectly, if you're not flying a perfect
profile, the bombs won't come off. And it's also more inaccurate than CCIP. But
CCIP, again, has some weaknesses as well. It doesn't use the radar, so you have
to visually find whatever you're bombing. It doesn't really work above 10,000
feet. If you try to use CCIP above 10,000 feet, it will actually turn into CCRP.
And you're just going to have CCRP cues and attack profile anyway. That's really
what we're dealing with here. So right now, as you can see, I'm in navigation
mode. This is when you first get your aircraft and you've decided that you want
to bomb something. So the first thing you're going to do is make sure that your
master arm is up and it's armed. You see here the master arm is in the up
position. The next thing we're going to want to do is cycle into master air-to-
ground mode by pressing AG on the ICP. Or by pressing Enter or Backspace on your
keyboard. It's one of those. I also have a bind on my joystick to cycle air-to-
air and air-to-ground hardpoints. And I use that to cycle into master modes
rather than click the ICP or use my keyboard. So if you have enough buttons to
do it, I would highly recommend binding cycle air-to-air weapons and cycle air-
to-ground weapons. Now what we're going to do is switch into air-to-grounds. The
first thing you're going to notice when you switch into air-to-grounds is it's
going to be in CCRP mode by default. And the FCR now has a radar screen. And
what it's showing you is essentially a picture of the earth. By default in this
example it's scanning 10 miles. You can click these buttons to increase the
range of the radar. And on this screen returns will show up as white dots, white
specks, or you'll actually be able to make out buildings using this screen. And
as with the air-based FCR, you can see the radar screen is showing up. And as
with the air-based FCR, you can see the radar screen is showing up.
 You have at the bottom left here you have the target's bullseye position and
below that is your bullseye. And bottom right here, time to target. It will
calculate at your current airspeed and bearing when you're going to reach the
target. At the top here, some important buttons. You have GM. This button right
here, it selects the radar mode. And in the center where it says norm, that's an
important button. Above that, that will expand the radar mode into three
different settings. You have expanded, it is EXP. Then you have DBS 1 and DBS 2,
which are Doppler beam sharpening 1 and 2. The most you can zoom in is DBS 2.
And DBS 2 will almost show, the radar is so highly detailed in DBS 2 that it
almost looks like a thermal image or flare or something like that. Really high
details. You can make out what you're looking at. And that's useful if you don't
have a targeting pod or for whatever reason you can't visually identify the
target. Now, on the right side, the only thing that you're really going to be
worrying about here is just where it says SP. If you click that, it goes into
snowplow mode. And when you're in snowplow mode, the radar will constantly scan
in front of you rather than be fixed on whatever steer point you have selected.
So by default, the radar will just, it will show you around where you have the
steer point. So if you have steer point 3 selected and it's on 10 miles, it will
show you 10 miles within steer point 3. Now, there will be situations where you
want to attack something that's not on the flight plan or you're too far away
from the steer point in order to use the radar and you want to scan leading up
to it. In that case, you can go into snowplow mode and the radar will actively
scan in front of you. And I would highly recommend using snowplow mode when
you're attacking ground targets because all too often you'll fly out of the
flight plan and you'll find your radar is blank because you've gone outside the
limits of whatever the range is on your radar. So that's the basics of the FCR.
Now we're going to go over some really important features of the FCR. The radar
mode is really what we're going to focus on here, okay? By default, it's going
to be in GM mode. And in GM mode, anything that has a height of about a meter or
greater is going to show up as a white contact on the radar. And that includes
buildings, trees, bridges, anything. It can also include units, but it's mostly
like this radar picture is actually very rare. Usually you wouldn't see
something this clear. You'd usually have hundreds and hundreds of boxes. And
it's usually from buildings or other obstacles that are being picked up on the
radar. So it's fine if you're bombing buildings. It's fine if you're bombing a
pre-brief target to stay in GM. But if you're hunting for moving targets, which
is what most of you are going to be doing, you need to be in GMT mode. And GMT
mode stands for ground moving target. The only difference here is that it does
not show targets that are stationary, for better or for worse. It will show
units that are mobile. There's also another mode on there which might be useful
called C, Sierra Echo Alpha. And that mode is for attacking moving targets that
are on the ocean. It's basically like GMT, except it's optimized for the ocean.
That being said, the procedure for attacking a target in CCRP is rather simple.
You're just going to slew your radar cursor over the target, then press TMS up.
Then you're going to hold down the pickle button and fly into a fall line that
appears on your HUD. And you're going to remain relatively level at the
artificial horizon. So we're going to go through that very slowly now. So the
first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to put this in the snowplow mode. Just
this way we can find some better targets. And I'm also going to expand the
resolution. And we can see here, this is what I was talking about before. We can
see here there's a whole bunch of buildings, probably all sorts of things. And
what we're going to do is we're just going to slew over one of them. We're going
to press TMS up. First things first, you might have to press TMS up to be able
to move the radar cursor. Once you do that, we're going to go over to contact,
press TMS up. This screen right here represents when the target's locked. When
you lock onto something in CCRP, you can't see anything else. It focuses the
radar beam on that target and your picture is blank until you press TMS down and
you break the lock. And that's something I should mention now. If you press TMS
down, it will break the lock on the target. So just keep that in mind. Now what
I'm going to do is I'm going to go over to my SMS page. And I'm going to select
a weapon that I can actually drop in CCRP. Normally you would do this before you
attack, but since this is an instant action, I have a shitload of different
weapons. And it's sort of a rare circumstance that you'd be doing this. You
would want to do this before you attack. I'm just going to switch into the SMS
page and I'm going to pick some Rock Eyes, which are cluster munitions. And we
can see here on the right MFD, it says the bombing mode next to the mode you're
in, the Master Mode, AG Master Mode, and then next to it is CCRP. And if you
click on that, you can select different bombing modes, the most prominent of
which are CCRP and CCIP. So I've selected some bombs that I can successfully
drop on a building, say. So what we're going to do now is I'm going to just go
ahead and bomb a random building, which is usually not good for people's health,
but this is a training exercise. Okay, now what we see here on our HUD, we get
some new symbology. You're going to see this green line following through the
center. That is called a fall line. That is the attack vector that you need to
be on in order to drop your bombs. So what you would do is you would maneuver
the meatball, which is indicating where your aircraft is heading, so it's
centered on that line. So this thing right here needs to be centered on this
line, and then you nose down a bit so you're level. Then you'd fly into the
target while holding TMS down, and the bomb will be released when the computer
decides that it's a good release angle. Another feature that you'll see when
you're locked onto something is a green box with a little square in the middle.
That is showing you what the target is. This way you can visually see the
target, confirm that you're hitting the right target. It will display as a box,
just like that. It looks like I'm hitting a granary or some sort of barracks
building or something. I can't really make it out from this distance. Another
really important part of the HUD is the bottom right here. When you have
something locked up, it will tell you the range of the target, which is the top
feature. The second line will be the time to target, and the third line is a
combined form of the top two lines. Other than that, the only thing that changes
about the HUD is the bottom left here. NAV will be replaced by CCRP. It's pretty
much that simple. We're going to fly on the target. It will take me about a
minute and fifty-one to get there. I'm just going to hold down TMS up. I'm going
to pause and we'll go do that. It doesn't have to be exactly in the center, but
it has to be relatively in the center. Now I'm holding down the Pickle button.
I'm one minute out. I can't pause it because I have to do this, but you're going
to see a horizontal line fall from the gun cross. Then it's going to get down to
the meatball, and then it's going to rise back up. The second time it falls back
down to the meatball is when your bomb is going to release. There's a pre-bomb
release cue, and then there's a bomb release cue. About thirty seconds out from
the target. Twenty-five seconds. Here it comes. Seventeen seconds. Here comes
that horizontal line. You guys see it? It's going to fall down, and then it will
come back down again very quickly. Now if that line goes up, then you have a
problem. That line...yup, now that's the final line. I'm holding down Pickle the
entire time, guys. When that line hits the velocity vector, it's over. Bomb will
release. Bombs away. Now if I was at a lower altitude, it would have taken a
shorter amount of time in order to release the bomb. There's a lot of different
variables here, and that's why the computer controls when you release, not you.
Because as humans, we don't have the mental ability to decide when it's going to
be a good time to release. There's dozens of factors here. Wind speed, altitude,
bearing, air speed, all sorts of variables. You'll see as we're moving away from
the target, in the bottom right of the HUD, the range is increasing and the time
the target is increasing. I think I pretty much covered everything with CCRP.
Now what we're going to do is go over CCIP. I'm going to pause. CCIP, just to
refresh, is a visual bombing mode. What did we do when we were using CCRP? We
went down to the FCR, we found the target, we locked onto it, and we released
the bomb that way. We used the radar. You don't have to use the radar, but you
have to use some sort of reference. For instance, if I wanted to, I guess we'll
go over this right now. If you change to a different steer point using your ICP,
the FCR will snap to whatever position that steer point is at. You don't lock up
anything on the FCR, you just hold down Pickle and you fly into the fall line.
I'll show you guys that right now. Right now we have steer point 2 selected. I'm
going to take off snowplow mode and we're going to switch to steer point 3,
which is 17 miles away. Note how it does have a position on the FCR. I'm not
locking anything up. You can fire at positions at the FCR without locking
anything up. You just have to slew the cursor onto the position and then just
fly into the fall line after you hold down the Pickle button. I have steer point
3 selected. It's 17 miles away. I'm not going to go through this entire thing
and make you guys sit here and watch it, but we can see the steer point over
there. It's an air base of some sort. We can see it on our HUD. All I would do
is hold down Pickle and fly into it, just like you would bomb something that you
locked onto. If I select different steer points, as I just did, you'll notice
that it's just like selecting a ground unit. It's going to be over here now. The
fall line moves and the target will move. This is over 50 miles away, so we're
probably going to see it on the horizon. Another thing to mention is that you
can visually lock onto targets using CCRP. If you move around your radar slew,
the target box will display on the HUD. If you see a building that you want to
bomb, you can move the target box onto it and press TMS up. I'm just looking for
buildings right now. Let's just imagine that there is a building right there,
which there isn't. All I would do is move the box onto it and fly in with
holding down Pickle. That's it for CCRP. Let's go over CCIP now. Again, it's a
visual bombing mode. We're going to go down to our right MFD and select CCIP.
What you're going to notice immediately is that your left FCR is now blank. All
it's going to show you is the artificial horizon, and that's it. It's not going
to show you anything else. That is because this bombing mode does not go off of
the FCR. It goes off of a secondary type of radar, which I'm not going to go
into, but it's not a radar that you can interact with. Everything is visual.
What we're going to note on our HUD here is we have a fall line. At the bottom
of the fall line is a circle with a dot in it. That is referred to as a CCIP
PIPPER. What we're going to do to bomb stuff using CCIP is we're going to move
the PIPPER onto what we want to bomb and then hold down TMS up. That's it. Then
you just fly into the fall line. The fall line will move around as it is right
now. It moves around until you hold down PICL, then it becomes solid like CCRP.
Then you fly into the fall line, just as you would CCRP. I'm just going to
unpause this and show you guys what I mean. See how it moves? It moves around.
All you've got to do, and it's a lot better at low altitudes, is visually find
something you want to bomb. You might have to look up in your cockpit and then
just hold down PICL and fly into it. This is the bombing mode that you see in
all the Gulf War videos. It's extremely accurate and extremely reliable. It's
very versatile and you can feel when you're going to release it. Right now, I
can tell just from that angle. If I press PICL, it's just going to immediately
release, or almost immediately. Just like in CCRP, you have that little fall
line showing you when the bomb will come off the rack. What I'm going to do now
is, I'm going to pause the video for a second, go find an armored column to
attack, and then show you guys that. In this part of the video, I'm going to
show you guys how to use a combination of CCRP and CCIP to prosecute a ground
attack. The theory here is that you're going to use CCRP to locate them, then
you're going to use CCIP to attack them. We'll use the FCR, we'll find them on
the FCR, then we'll attack them using CCIP. It goes something like this. Right
now, we're in nav mode. We're going to unpause the game and we're going to start
doing it. I'm unpausing, switching into master air to ground mode, looking for
targets using CCRP. I see some buildings in front of me. That might be a column.
Let's check them out. Now it looks like a building. There we go. You can very
clearly see there that that is a column. 10 miles off our nose. There we go. You
can very clearly see there that that is a column. 10 miles off our nose. There
we go. There she blows. There she blows. Now that I visually see this column,
I'm going to go back to my SMS page and quickly switch to CCIP. Then I'm going
to roll in. Looks like it extends over there too. Rolling in. Let's go back and
see how our handiwork paid off. I see some burning fires, so we probably did
good. Let's see. We have some burning vehicles. We definitely achieved our goal
here. If I wanted to, I could re-attack this column and inflict even more damage
on it. It should be pretty obvious that we're going to use CCRP to locate the
targets and we're going to use CCIP to attack them. This is ideal for hunting
for targets. This is actually a pretty bad example because normally the targets
would be moving around. That would be even easier to find them if you just
switched to GMT mode and the only moving targets are going to be enemy. One
thing that I didn't note in the other part of the video is that when you lock up
something on CCRP, you should always declare the target with AWACS before you
attack it. I don't want to go into that in this video, but generally speaking if
you lock something up, make sure you press the Q key and then 2 to declare them
with AWACS. Otherwise you might be killing friendlies and that's no good. One
other feature of CCIP that I want to go over is the HUD symbology for the
maximum pitch that you can make before you hit into the ground with no recovery.
I'm just going to go ahead and do a dive bomb attack and walk through it as we
see it. This open bracket has appeared below the CCIP pipper. See this bracket
right here? If this pipper goes below that bracket, there is no way to recover
the aircraft. It is unrecoverable from a dive. So when you're doing a dive bomb
attack, this pipper always has to remain above the bracket. It is a law of
bombing. So watch. If I start to approach that bracket, it's going to tell me to
pull up. I'm dead now. See? That was very dangerous and I actually overjee'd my
aircraft and probably damaged it. So you can see as you gain in altitude and you
gain in pitch, that bracket will go away. But if you try to dive again, it's
going to come back. See there it is. If I go any further than that, I have a
chance of colliding into the ground. So that's how to use CCRP and CCIP. I
believe I've covered everything. The next part is going to be dive tossing
bombs. The final bombing mode we're going to go over is called dive toss or D
toss. Dive toss is a visual bombing mode in which you designate a target
visually and then you loft the bomb onto the target. What that means is that the
bomb is fired ballistically from the aircraft by pitching the nose of the
aircraft up and then releasing the bomb. That allows you to achieve a standoff
advantage against targets that otherwise you're unable to fly over due to air
threats or terrain that's in the way or other circumstances. It's often used
against SAM sites. It's often used against targets which are covered by AAA
envelope. And it's used when you can't fly directly over the target. That being
said, in order to activate dive toss, you have to switch into master air to
ground mode as usual. And you need to select dive toss where it's a CCRP. We're
now good to go for dive toss. Now, the angle in which you need to pitch your
nose up is determined by the SMS page in the attack profile. You can change it
by going to control right here. We're not going to go into that for this video.
But you just need to know what the release angle is and where it is. Right here,
it's under the arming delay. The default release angle for these BD-33s is 45
degrees. So that means I have to nose up 45 degrees in order to release these
bombs with mofting. Now, let's go over the HUD symbology. So what you're going
to find is that when you switch into detoss, you're going to see the CCRP style
TV box or targeting designator box. It's going to be on the meatball. The idea
behind using this mode is that you slew the box onto the target that you want to
bomb visually. And then you hold down Pickle, you fly the fall line that's
created just like in CCRP. Then you're going to have a cue to release it. And
when that cue presents itself, you're going to pitch up to the release angle and
the bombs will come off the aircraft and then launch ballistically. And doing it
this way, you can accomplish bombs that have a range now of about seven miles if
you toss them like this way. It's not the most accurate mode, but it is the most
effective against targets when you don't have Mavericks or other standoff
weapons. We also note that on the bottom right of our HUD, it changed from nav
to detoss. So now we're going to begin an attack and dive toss. I've already set
up the release angle and I've set up the bombing mode to detoss. On our HUD by
the meatball, we see the TD or target designator box. We move this box onto what
we want to bomb visually. Then we hold down Pickle. Until we hold down Pickle,
it's not going to be ground stabilized. So I see some targets over here on the
range going to ground stabilize and then fly into the fall line just like you
would CCRP. As soon as that horizontal line hits the artificial horizon, we're
going to get a flashing circle. Flashing circle, and then we nose up. Pitch up
to our release angle. 20 degrees up. Then hold. 20 degrees. Now I've got to hold
this angle. Done. Five miles away from the target. Now I'm going to peel out.
Normally you'd be getting fired on by AAA or whatever it was that you were
lofting on. Get away from the target. And that's how you do a loft using the
dive toss. Now it is possible to loft using other bombing modes. For instance,
if you're in CCRP, it will give you a loft indicator on your HUD. In which case
you can loft the bomb. The F-16 is sort of unique in that the various bombing
modes can turn into each other dependent on various situations. So let's go
ahead and select CCRP. Put it in snope out mode. Okay, there's a...that one's a
little far. I want to get something closer so you don't have to watch me fly.
Here we go. This one's much better. Two minutes to target. I don't know what
this is. It could be someone's house. I have no idea. Don't really care. Looks
like a factory of some sort. I'm going to fly into it just like I would in
normal CCRP. And you're going to see the cue for lofting is going to appear just
the same. At that point I can initiate a dive toss by nosing off to the release
angle. Now, the greater the release angle, the further you can loft, the harder
it is to maintain your aircraft. So if you do it 45 degrees, it's really hard to
get up that high or higher and maintain that. So you might want to opt for 20-25
degrees. It's a lot easier to maintain and a lot easier to execute. Especially
as a new pilot. See here, some factory buildings. 30 seconds from target, 11
miles. The first horizontal lunge will be dropping soon. There it comes. Ready
to pitch up. Now, pitch up 20 degrees and hold it. On the way. Go defensive.
Remember not to overdo your aircraft. And that's how you do a lofting in CCRP.
So hopefully I covered some interesting topics. Let me know if there's anything
else I can expand upon in a future video. Hi, welcome to another Falcon 4 BMS
tutorial. This tutorial is going to cover the AGM aircraft. Hi, welcome to
another Falcon 4 BMS tutorial. This tutorial is going to cover the AGM-88 Harm
anti-radiation missile. Before we can go in game and show you the harm, I need
to go over two features that are at the breathing screen. The first of which is
the loadout screen. So at the loadout screen there is a piece of equipment here
that you're going to want to equip on your aircraft to get maximum usage of the
harm. And that is this guy right here. That's an HTS or Harm Targeting System
pod. And you can add that to the F-16 by just clicking this green box at the
loadout screen. And without the HTS you cannot use the Harm Attack Display,
which is one of the most versatile and easy to use attack modes for the harm.
Another thing I want to show you guys how to do is designate targets to your
points. And the reason for this is that often you'll know that there's a SAM
site or a SAM battalion in the vicinity of whatever mission you are conducting.
And you want to destroy that SAM site with accuracy and you don't want to have
to try to find it on alternative systems. You know its exact position. So in
order to destroy that target using the harm you want to create a target to your
point and then reference it later using the weapon modes of the harm. So in
order to designate a target to your point you're going to want to recon whatever
it is that you want to attack. By right clicking on the map and selecting recon.
Then you want to find the target in the recon screen. You're going to select for
instance when we're attacking SAM sites we're going to want to select the radar
for the SAM battalion. In SA2 it's a, or correction in SA3 it's a low blow. So
we click on that then we go to this option here where it says designate a target
to your point. We change it to whatever we want. I would recommend selecting a
target to your point that is in excess of your regular flight plan which usually
involves at least 10 to your points. So I usually go and I start at 15 and go
ahead and designate that. Now when I go in game and I switch to your point 15 it
will be on the exact position of this SA3 and then I can destroy it much easier
using the harm. So those are two major concepts that you guys should know before
you start using the harm. And with that let's get in game. Ok so we're now in
game so what I'm going to do is give you a basic introduction to what the harm
is. The Harm AGM-88 is an anti-radiation missile that is the successor of the
Shrike anti-radiation missile that was used in Vietnam. Anti-radiation missiles
are usually used to destroy radar systems from surface to air missiles and AAA
or anti-aircraft artillery. They detect radar emissions and then can lock onto
them with their sensor head and are guided onto and destroy radar sites. You can
use harms against anything as large as a fully developed SAM radar to anything
as small as the radar dish on a Shilka or Tunguska mobile AAA. So with that
being said, once we're in game we need to power on the harm. So we're going to
switch into master air to ground mode by pressing AG on our ICP. Once we're in
AG mode we're going to power on the harms because if you don't do that they're
pretty useless, they're just paperweights. On the right side of the MFD here
where it says power off just click to the right of that. Now we're powered on,
there's nothing else you need to do at the SMS page. What you are going to want
to do though is you're going to want to replace SMS with the HAD or Harm Attack
display. So all we do is we just click under SMS and then the screen will come
up and then we click at the top left above where it says HAD. Now there's two
ways to use the harms. You can use the HAD which is the Harm Attack display but
that's dependent on you having the HTS installed on your aircraft, the HTS pod
installed on your aircraft. Now that's something which you can normally
accomplish because it's not a difficult thing to just check that during the
briefing screen or whatever. But just keep that in mind that you can't use the
HAD unless you have the HTS installed on your aircraft. Now the HAD is a fully
integrated system that includes the flight plan, situational cues and
information from the harms sensor. It's the easiest system to use and it's also
the most versatile system to use. That being said, it doesn't have the ability
to do specific point attacks like the alternative modes that the harm can use.
So the HAD is one way to use the harm. The other way to use the harm is to use
the weapons, the systems from the weapon itself and you select those by using
the weapon page of your MFD. And the weapon modes are two-fold. There is
positional mode or position known and you use that on point targets and during
ambushes. And there is HAS mode or harm as sensor. And that is basically a
boresight mode for the harm which allows you to select various radars that the
harm is detecting. It's essentially a very primitive mode or primitive version
of the HAD and the only reason you would ever use it is if you don't have an
HAD. That being said, let's go over the HAD first. And pay attention to this
because as a new guide to Falcon 4 BMS this is what you're going to be using the
most and it's the easiest to use. So let's go ahead and check out the HAD. Now
the HAD has a bunch of features, okay? This blue outline of an airplane is you.
It's your aircraft. And it also shows your attitude and bearing. This white
jagged oval surrounding your aircraft or emanating from your aircraft is the
footprint for the harm. That is the maximum range and gimbal limits of the harm.
If there is a contact inside that bubble then you can engage it. If it's outside
of that bubble then you cannot engage it. Also on the screen surrounding your
aircraft is a compass. The part that has a triangle or a point coming out of it
is north. And right now we can see that north is pointing down right which means
I'm headed southwest. The green lines that are running through the HAD, that is
the flight plan. And one downside is that it doesn't show steer points but it
generally will show the flight plan. Another feature is these two green lines.
That is the targeting reticle. And you move that on the radar contacts in order
to select them. Also on the screen, also on this MFD is these yellow numbers and
letters. Those are active radars. There are four different colors. If it's green
then the radar is passive and it's not emitting. If it's yellow then it's
emitting. If it's red then it's actively pinging something. And if it's flashing
red then it's actively launching. The ideal situation for employment of the harm
is on a radar that is either red or flashing red. But of course there are some
situational concerns. You might not be able to always use one of your wingmen as
a wild weasel to attract the harm to turn on or whatever. Or it might be too
deadly or you might not be able to do it due to the terrain. Whatever the
circumstances, most of the time you might not be able to get it to flash red or
turn red. However, you should never fire on a target that is green. Because the
radar is either off or it's passive. And in that circumstance the harm will just
fall out of the sky like a paperweight and it won't do anything. The harm is
dependent on the radar being active. And the more active it is and the more
emissions it's sending out, the more effective the harm is. Now the top left of
this MFD is the range in nautical miles that the HAT is currently scanning. So
it's 60 nautical miles. You can press these buttons to increase or decrease the
range. The other features of the HAT are unimplemented at this time. So all
these buttons on the side are unimplemented. So all you've got to do now to
attack a radar using the HAT is simply to change the sensor of interest to the
HAT. And then slew over, select the radar contact, and then pickle onto them
after you're within the indexer. So what is sensor of interest? What is sensor
of interest? Sensor of interest basically tells the aircraft what MFD or what
display you're interested in using and what you're going to want to manipulate
with your controls. So by default we can see that this left MFD is sensor of
interest. And we know that because there is a white box outlining the screen.
And to change sensor of interest you just press DMS down. And when you do so
you'll notice that the white outline shifts down to this screen. And with the
screen being sensor of interest I can now move around the cursor and I can
select targets. So the first procedure you're going to be doing in order to
attack, we're going to go after this SA-3 that's to my 10 o'clock. It's about 30
miles. So the procedure to attack this thing is we slew over it and we press TMS
down, or TMS up rather. And then you see that white box appears surrounding the
radar contact. And that is the target that you have actively have selected. Now
the cool thing about BMS is that if you turn on your HMCS, which is your helmet
mounted HUD, you can actually visually identify and visually see where the SAM
is. So, and it will appear as a green box on your HMCS. So even though the
visibility is a little low right now and I can't see the target, if we were
closer I'd be able to directly see it on this heading, which is approximately
200. So, and this is like an invaluable tool. And it will greatly improve your
situational awareness and also your survivability because it's great to know
where a SAM site is. Even if you're just walking onto the radar, where the radar
is is usually nearby to the launcher. So you'll know where the launchers are
going to come from if you're trying to defend against it. And it will really
help you with your SAM evasion. So I highly recommend you to do this. So I
highly recommend turning on the HMCS when you are using any of the ARM systems.
So I highly recommend turning on the HMCS when you are using any of the ARM
systems. Let's go ahead and kill the HMCS so we can actually look at things.
Okay, so I now have it locked up and we'll see that there's some new HUD
symbology that appeared after I locked it up. That is, there's now an indexer.
It's very similar to what we've seen with the AMRAM. We have the greater than
symbol, also known as the caret. We have a bracket which represents maximum and
minimum range. And when this caret descends above the maximum range line, we can
fire. It's that simple. And unlike the AMRAM, it doesn't become more accurate if
you're closer to the target or anything like that. It doesn't matter if you fire
at max range or minimum range. It's going to have essentially the same effect.
We also have in the center of our HUD here, we have this green circle. This will
flash when the maximum range has been met. When you're within the maximum range,
this will flash and the target will also flash on the HUD. So let's go ahead and
unpause this and fly towards the target. Now we'll note here a new HUD symbology
has appeared. And that is we have our target designation box and we also have a
circle around it indicating where the HAD selection is. And we're almost, we can
see from here, we're almost within maximum range. So I'm going to just fly a
little bit closer. When that circle starts flashing, we have a maximum range
shot. There it goes. We can fire right now if we want to. You'll also note that
the radar contact is now inside the footprint for the arm. So I'm going to go
ahead and fire upon this target. Now these missiles take a really long time to
fly towards their targets, especially at max range. You might have to wait up
until up to two minutes for them to make impact. So while we're waiting, I'm
going to go ahead and tell you guys how to trip your aircraft out. And also note
that on your HAD, when the target is destroyed it will just disappear from the
HAD. The numbers that are on the HAD represent active emissions that the harm
sensor head is picking up. Or correction, that the HTS is picking up. Now as
you'll note, I am rolling slightly to the right. And the reason for that is
pretty obvious if you look at my aircraft from the outside. You can see here
that on my left wing I fired off the harm, and that's causing my aircraft to
spin to the right. So this isn't the end of the world. We can definitely fix
this. All we need to do is we need to trim out to the left. So in order to do
that you just hold down ALT and you press the left arrow key until you stop
rolling left. And we can see here I'm relatively stable. If you wanted to use
the cockpit controls to trim out, you could use them right here. The manual trim
panel does the exact same thing as using your ALT keys. Okay, so this missile
should impact momentarily. 4 in position. Weasel 1 return to base. 3 4 Still on
the head. It makes me believe that my missile missed for whatever reason. I
might have to fire another one off. If it starts actively scanning me then I'll
fire another one. And you can probably barely see it on this video, but you can
actually see the fan song radar. It's very, very small. We're almost at minimum
range. I'm going to go ahead and pick off another one. Magnum.
 I put my jammer on just for safety sake. SA-3 just detected me. It's probably
going to fire on me. It's okay though because we've got that harm in the air.
We'll see the three disappear off the HAD momentarily. Radar destroyed. I'm just
going to trim myself out here and then we'll proceed onward. I'm going to kill
this freaking HMCS. That's how to use the HAD. It's pretty straightforward, very
simple. There are some circumstances where the HAD is not going to be as useful
as other modes. You can use the harm itself as an attack system or as a weapon
system. If you click WPN on your right MFD, so when you click on the weapon page
on your right MFD, it may by default display the position known mode which we
can see here at the top left where it says POS. This is, if you click on that
you can select the various modes. POS is for, as I said before, it's when you
know where the target is and you have a target steer point, you mark the steer
point, whatever it is, and whatever the case is and you want to destroy a point
target, you'd use POS. HAS is like a boresight mode for the harm that is
essentially just showing you what the threats are around you, the more primitive
version of the HAD. So let's go ahead and go over POS for now. There's three sub
modes or flight profiles to POS or positional. There's EOM which is a self-
defense mode and there is RUK which is range unknown. RUK is used when you don't
have full confidence of where the SAM is that you're firing at but you have a
general idea of where it is, a vicinity. It fires out with a large field of view
and basically flies over the target and scans for in the vicinity of wherever
the steer point is. It's useful on mobile SAM systems or SAMs where you know
their general vicinity but not the exact position. Then there is pre-briefed or
PB and that's for SAMs that you know their exact position, you likely found them
during the briefing, plotted down their position as a target steer point. Now
you want to reference that steer point and attack that exact target. Now in all
of these modes you have to select the sort of radar that you're going to be
engaging and that's selected on the left side of the MFD. Now by default it goes
through SA2 through SA6 but you see here next to the mode button there is where
it says TBL1, that's to select the various radar tables. So if we click that we
can select different SAM systems. This is 8 through 12, then we have 13 through
17 and then it begins some allied SAM systems. We have the Nike, the Chonmah,
the Hawk, Patriot, the A stands for AAA and the S is for search radar. So the
idea is that the procedure here is that you're going to select the sort of SAM
that you're going to be engaging, then you're going to select a steer point
where the SAM is and then the HUD symbology will reflect that position as a
target. So it's similar to locking up something on your HAD except instead of
locking it up on the HAD you're just selecting a position via steer point and
then referencing that for your attack profile. Now let's go over the rest of the
MFD symbology. So this green line down the center divides two different areas of
information. On the top that is post launch information. So after you fire off a
harm you'll see some information there and you'll get it post launch. Below it
is pre-launch information and that is information before you fire. It will tell
you time of flight, the target steer point you have selected and other
information which we're about to show you in a moment. So right now I know that
there is an SA2 at steer point 16 because I designated it during the briefing
and we can see it here on the HSD. I also designated a threat circle. So I know
that it's there, I know that it's at steer point 16. So what I'm going to do is
I'm going to select steer point 16 using S on my keyboard. You can also use your
ICP to do it but I'm going to use S. And I now have the SA2 selected. At this
point I'm going to go into my weapon page and I'm going to select 2 on the left
side of the MFD. Now it displays the pre-launch information. It says the SAM
system, what I'm going to be targeting and that's 2. Under that is the steer
point where the system is which is 16. Under that is time of flight and, or
correction, time to impact. And under that is time of impact. So time to impact,
time of impact. So it would take 1 minute and 43 seconds for this to fly through
the air and it will be there at 1824 if I were to fire right this second. Now
once I fire, that information is going to get sent up to the, above the line
where the post launch information is and a new harm or new target information
will be selected below the line. So the procedure for attacking a pre-briefed or
an RUK target, range unknown target, is the same, is similar at least to using
the HAD. So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to turn right into
the target and get on bore site with it. Okay, we're now on bore site with the
target. Now there's some new symbology here though, okay. We have a fall line
going down the center of our HUD. We also have, let me just unpause this and get
it so you can see the entire thing. Okay, we have a fall line going through our
HUD. We also have maximum ideal pitch, which is this horizontal line on the fall
line. We have minimum pitch, which is this horizontal line. And we have ideal
lofting position, which is the space between these two greater than and less
than symbols, okay. So an ideal shot would be between the maximum pitch and
minimum pitch and would be inside the lofting position. So all I'm going to do
is I'm already within maximum range. I could fire right now, it wouldn't be
ideal, but I could fire right now. But to make this the best shot possible, I'm
going to pitch up so that my meatball is inside the lofting cue and then I'm
going to hold down pickle. Right now we are a minute 39 to impact. And if I were
to fire right now, it would be there at 1825.20. Magnum. So if you're scanning
me. We can use the, we can use the HUD to, we can use the HUD to detect that the
target has been destroyed. I'm getting a little closer so he might fire on me.
Fine, I'm going to bait it. Go below the clouds. This visibility is pretty
crappy right now. And target destroyed. Lights out on the HUD. So that's how you
do a PB attack, that's also how you do an RUK attack, range unknown. The only
change between RUK and PB is just it's a different situation that you'd use
those two different attack modes. But the actual methodology for attacking is
the exact same thing between PB and RUK. Now EOM is different. EOM, in EOM mode,
what you do is you're, you know, you're on your RWR, you're getting locked up, a
SAM just fired at you, it's for self-defense mostly. And what do you do, okay?
So first thing you're going to do is you're going to be in EOM mode. Then you're
going to select the type of SAM that's firing at you. Then you're going to point
in the general vicinity of the SAM and then you're just going to pickle. Simple
as that. It's not the most effective mode but it might save your ass some time.
So I know that there is a SA-3 at steer 18. So we're going to fly over to steer
18 and we're going to try to defend ourselves using EOM mode. So I select steer
3. I mean SA-3. I'm going to unpause the game. Fly over there. It's 53 miles
away so please bear with me while I burn over there. I would engage the SA-4 at
steer 17 but the problem with that is that there's two SA-4 radars so we
wouldn't actually know if we killed the right one. But unfortunately, oh yeah,
the SA-4 threat circle overlaps the SA-3. Okay, so we're going to have to do
this with the SA-4. So imagine we're just flying around. Do-do-do, minding our
own business and then all of a sudden we get launched on by an SA-4. We try to
defend ourselves at EOM. At this point if I wanted to I could actually attack
the SA-4 as a pre-brief target. I'm already within maximum range but we're just
going to try EOM for now. Still about 5 miles from the max threat circle. These
conditions are horrible. I'm going to turn my jammer off so I'm a nice juicy
target for them. Just entered lethal, could fire on me at any time. Although
most SAM systems will not, they'll usually try to ambush you when you're closer.
If I were to fire right now it would take a minute thirty for the harm to reach
the target. Come on Mr. SA-4. Getting really close here. If he fires at me at
this range it's going to be deadly. There he goes. Oh snap, I'm getting locked
on by an SA-4. I never thought this would happen. Oh god, what am I doing? I'm
scared. Oh god. Oh god. Pickle. No, no. I'm too defensive. The last feature
we're going to go over today is the HAS mode on the weapon page of the harm.
That stands for Harm as Sensor. Harm as Sensor is a boresight mode that
essentially shows you the boresight sensor of the harm, including incoming
emissions, and then you select them and attack them. It's a very primitive
interface. I personally would never use it in combat, but I'm going to show you
how to use it just for completeness sake. So, very quickly going to turn on my
AGMs. On the weapon page where it says POS, just going to click that, switch it
to HAS. Now we have the display for the HAS. And pretty much what you're looking
at, it's very simple. You have a cross, a gun cross going down the center that
represents the boresight of the harm sensor itself. RS is just a reset button.
This green box at the top shows you all types of threats that are currently
seen. And active emitters are yellow, red, or green targets. In order to engage
one of these targets, you just slew over it when the screen is Sensor of
Interest. Press TMS up, and when it's a good launch or an acceptable launch, it
will say Ready on the bottom. So, I'm going to go ahead and see this cross.
That's just a boresight view. And it says Ready down here, that means you can
fire. That's it. There's no indexer. There's nothing fancy. That's all there is
to it. When it says Ready, you can fire. It means that it's within a somewhat
acceptable range. And of course, since this is boresight operated, you're going
to want to use the HAS as sort of your indicator of where you should be headed
where you fire. So right now, I'd naturally want to fire on that SA-3 that I
have selected. I wouldn't want to turn all the way right and get him off a
boresight. Obviously, that's not a good idea. So now he's on boresight, he's
pickled, and that's it. Nothing much more to say. So hopefully this tutorial was
useful. And please let me know if there was anything that I need to clarify. I
know it's a pretty complicated topic. I tried to simplify it so it would be
watchable and would not be too overwhelming. So enjoy and please let me know in
the comments. Welcome to another Falcon 4 BMS tutorial. This is going to be a
short video focusing on the Radar Warning Receiver, also known as the RWR or
RAW. The RWR is a passive radar sensor that detects incoming radar emissions
onto your aircraft with full 360 degree security. That allows you to know when a
radar source is pinging your aircraft or might be nearby. And then it also not
only will show you the azimuth to the threat or the contact, it will also
classify that contact along threat level or lethality. So the RWR is on the left
side of your cockpit. It's this guy right here. And it's always on and always
reliable. Now the anatomy of the RWR is as follows. You have three rings. The
outer ring implies no lethality from the contact. The inner ring means the
contact is within lethal range. And the innermost ring is just the immediate
area around your aircraft. And if the contact is there, then you are momentarily
away from exploding. It really doesn't come in handy unless you're talking about
evading active missiles. And then you'll be able to track if it's about to touch
your aircraft or not. So there's one important thing to note here and that is
that these rings do not equate to range. They equate to the threat level or
lethality of the system. So for instance, an SA-2 within lethal might be 10 or
15 miles away, but an SA-10 within lethal is still geographically going to be 50
miles away. So you need to realize that, and I'm going to emphasize this again,
it does not tell you the range. It can tell you the relative range based on the
system, but it doesn't give you exact ranges at all. What it does give exact
measurements to is the azimuth of the contact. So for instance, I know that in
this example, I have a MiG-29 to my 12 o'clock. And the RWR can be considered to
be a God's eye or bird's eye view on your aircraft. So your aircraft is pointing
this way. And then we have the cardinal and clocked view. So that's the cardinal
and clocked direction surrounding it. Now, the symbology for the RWR is varied.
If you see a number just by itself, that's a SAM system. If you see a number
with a carrot or wedge on top of it, that's an aircraft. So I currently have a
MiG-29 on my RWR. You can see the 29 here. And then above it, there's a wedge or
carrot symbol that signifies that it's an aircraft. Another symbol that is
prominent on the RWR is diamonds. And a diamond signifies the highest threat or
the largest, most significant threat. If there were multiple contacts on here,
let's say there was a few more 29s behind this one, they wouldn't have a diamond
on them. They would just appear as 29s. And this one, the foremost one, would
appear with the diamond because he's closest to me. And the radar emission is
the strongest from that particular contact. There's some other symbols as well.
And I'm going to try to post a picture of these symbols into the video. For
instance, a P is a Patriot SAM system. A C is a Chaparral. A, alpha, is a AAA. S
is a search radar. U is unknown. A little symbol of a boat, which looks like
this, is a maritime... ...contact with a radar on it. And when a contact has a
circle surrounding it, that means that it's actively launching on you. So if you
see like a 2 and has a flashing circle around it, that means that it is firing
on you. And this RWR is absolutely critical for situational awareness and
survivability. Not only do you use it for defense and in combat, but you also
use it for general navigation. For instance, you can sort of judge where your
wingmen are just by having their 16 spikes behind you or in front of you. You
can sort of get an idea for where they are. That's pretty much it with the
symbology. And now we're just going to go over some specific instances of
symbology. So as you see here, we've already gone over this one. It's a MiG-29.
Now one other feature of the RWR is that it tracks active missiles, incoming
active missiles. What is an active missile? It's a radar-guided missile that is
semi-actively tracking your aircraft and bombarding it with hundreds of pings a
second. And those missiles, those symbols will appear as M's on your RWR. And as
soon as you see an M, you should immediately go defensive, drop all your, you
know, do an emergency jettison, do a split S, and burn. Because if you see an M,
then you're having an adder fire to you, which is the Russian equivalent of the
AMRAAM. It actually has a longer range than the AMRAAM, and some say it actually
has a higher probability of kill. The only downside of the AMRAAM ski as it's
known, or the adder R-60, is that the fire needs to be constantly locking onto
you the entire attack. And if the radar ever breaks, then the missile loses all
guidance, unless it's within a semi-active range. So that's an important note.
So next we're going to go over some SAMs. At this point I'm approaching some air
defenses, specifically an SA-4. And what you usually will see when you're
approaching a SAM is that it will scan you with its search radar, which will
usually just be, you know, you'll see the number flash on your RWR for a moment,
and then it will go away. And then when you get closer, it will start soft
locking you, which means it's actively pinging you. And then when it's about to
fire, you'll stay on the RWR permanently, turn into a diamond, and then you
might get a launch warning. And we're going to go over all the buttons next to
the RWR in a moment. For now I just want to show you the symbology for what will
appear on the RWR when you are in contact with radar emissions. I'm just passing
a little bit of lethal now with this SA-4. I'm shooting it there as a search
radar. Keep watching. There's a search radar again. Now I know that the radar
operator knows where I am. He's tracking me and he's probably going to fire at
me if I continue on this course. You can see here that at this point, at this
point the SA-4 is outside of lethal. Once it passes this line, then it becomes a
serious threat. I mean, I am within its maximum range at this point. He could
fire at me, but the chance of it being lethal is very low. What this RWR
basically is telling me is that I could defeat this missile if it were to fire
at me at this point. Now once it goes inside that circle, the inner circle, then
it's anybody's ballgame and you could defeat it or it might turn out to be
lethal. I'm approaching the center now. As soon as it turns to lethal, it'll
probably fire on me. Now we see the SA-4 is firing. Note how there's a flashing
circle around the floor. Note how the launch indicator on the left side of the
RWR has lit up. This is typical of what you'll experience when you're dealing
with SAMs. Now we'll see what an actively guided radar missile appears as on the
RWR. I'm going to merge with the MiG-29SM, which carries ADR missiles, very
deadly active radar missiles. Once we get about five miles closer, he's going to
start hard locking me and then he'll fire on me. Wait for it. Now we see that
he's fired an active radar missile at me. The threat diamond has transferred
from the MiG-29 to the missile. The missile is now actively tracked. It's on the
nose, within lethal. And the launch indicator has also transferred from the
MiG-29 to the missile. And as we'll see, it has a very distinctive tone. I'm
probably going to die because we're only within about 11 miles. There's not
really any way for me to evade this, but I'm going to try to evade it just so
you guys can hear the tone. Chat flare. Chat flare. Chat flare. Chat flare.
Warning. Warning. Warning. Warning. The last thing we're going to go over are
the RWR buttons and the more advanced customization features of the RWR. So on
the left side of the RWR we have a handoff button. And what that does is it will
simply bypass the highest threat, take the diamond off it, and it will look for
the next highest threat. It's useful if you're getting pinged and there's just
an incessant tone that will never stop and you already know that the target's
there. The next thing is the mode button. If you click mode, it will switch
between all threats and only priority threats. So you can put it on priority and
it will only show the highest threats. Then we have this button here where it
says target step. This is for decluttering the screen. And like if there's a
bunch of symbols on top of each other, you can declutter the screen by pressing
that and it will send it to the edges of the RWR for a moment so you can
actually see what's in the area. If you turn this button on, it will display
unknown and it will display naval contacts. And if you left click it, it will
display unknown. If you right click it, it will also show naval contacts.
There's some more buttons in the RWR that relate to the RWR, but they're not in
this immediate area. They're down here under your ECM panel or to the left of
your ECM panel. One thing that you should know about on the ECM panel itself is
this switch, which is to turn the RWR on. Another really important section of
buttons is these four buttons here. This button right here, system power, will
power the RWR on and off. This button right here will only show low altitude
threats if you click it on. Where it says altitude, if you click this search
button, then it will show search radars on the RWR, which it does not by
default. So if we fly around now, there should be some search radars here
because there's a moving mud. Oh well, what you would have on your screen is
you'd have a bunch of S's with their search radars. Normally they're so numerous
that they clutter the screen and by default they're off. So those are the major
reasons why you should be able to fly around with them. Just one final note
before I end this video is that use the RWR. The first thing you should use is
your eyes, the second thing you should use is your RWR, the third thing you
should use is your FCR. The RWR will save your ass if you use it correctly and
very carefully read it. Always use the RWR. Always glance down whenever you're
flying to the RWR and see what's going on because you can really preempt
yourself from being ambushed if you're very careful. Unlike the FCR, the RWR
does not have gimbal limits so it can see 360 degrees around your aircraft. And
then you can use that in conjunction with the FCR to execute really good attacks
and effective defenses of weapon systems. So I hope this video was helpful.
Please let me know in the comments. Welcome to another Falcon 4 BMS tutorial.
This tutorial is going to cover the Datalink. The Datalink is a digital system
that allows you to know the position of other aircraft in your flight as well as
your package to gain increased situational awareness. The Datalink is a digital
system that allows you to know the position of other aircraft in your flight as
well as your package to gain increased situational awareness and to send cursor
and positional data digitally. And the practical use for such a system like this
is that first off and most importantly you can have situational awareness on
where your flight is in relation to the object of your flight. And then you can
use the Datalink to get other flights in your package. And that reduces the need
for comms clutter, for alpha checks, and asking other flights for bulls-eye
positions and bearing range and altitude. And the second thing is that it allows
you to quickly sort out air contacts and then send, or you can actually assign
air contacts to people in your flight. So for instance, if there's four bandits
on the nose and they're coming in at you, you don't really have time to verbally
tell each person in your flight what you want them to engage. Or at least it
complicates things if you have to do that. So what you can do with the Datalink
is you can select each target one by one and then digitally assign the targets
to the other people in your flight. A third and really powerful aspect of the
Datalink is that you can send cursor and position data. So if you see on your
FCR a position of like an armored tank column, you can instantly transmit that
position using cursor data. And if you don't want to send just a cursor
position, which is a temporary thing, you can actually send a mark point. You
can transmit digitally mark points or steer points and then all the flights in
the package will have that data available. So they'll get a thing on their HUD
which says data mark point 71. And then all they need to do is switch to steer
point 71 and then they'll have the exact position that you marked. You can refer
to that over and over again. So the Datalink is sort of a crucial thing that
will greatly increase your survivability and the survivability of everyone in
your package. And it's something that you really need to know in order to master
this game. That being said, the first thing we're going to go over is where do
you see the Datalink? How do you host the Datalink? So by default, we'll see
here on our right MFD that I cannot see the other aircraft in my flight. They
are physically, as we can see from looking around, they are physically flying
with me. You can see them there. My other wingman is over there on my wing. My
flight is in formation, in good proper formation. They're flying with me but I
can't see them on the HSD. Now in Allied Force and in previous versions of
Falcon, the Datalink was hosted by default and you really couldn't customize it.
But in this, at least one aircraft needs to host the Datalink before the other
aircraft are able to visibly see them. So right now it's not hosted. So the
first step in using the Datalink is to host it. And the way you do that is, on
your left FCR, you're going to change this option here which says assign on the
right side of the FCR. You're going to change that to CONT, which is continuous.
Then you're going to hold down CTRL-O for about two seconds and then release it.
What you'll see is that the continuous option will light up white. And then on
your HSD, you'll see the other aircraft that are in your flight. And if we were
to add other flights to the Datalink, we'd also be seeing them right now as
well. But the first step is to just host the Datalink. Anyone in the flight can
do it. The flight lead should probably do it though. Now we have the Datalink
hosted. We can see aircraft in our own flight and we can even use all the
functions of the Datalink as it applies to our particular flight. But as I said,
one of the most powerful features of the Datalink is that you can actually view
other flights on your HSD and get some really good situational awareness. So the
way we do that is as follows. You're going to click LIST on your ICP. Then
you're going to see the list of stuff on your DED. Just press ENTER. And then it
will bring you to the CONT page. We're going to go ahead and ignore that. Just
click SEQUENCE on your ICP rocker. You're going to click SEQUENCE. Now we see
the area. Now on the DED, Interflight Datalink is shown. And we have the option
to assign other aircraft to the Datalink other than those in our flight. So as
we can see now, it shows 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. You can simultaneously have 8
different aircraft on your Datalink. Now when you have a package, the first
flight in that package is 1. And the leader of that flight is 1, 1, and his
wingman is 1, 2, and the second element leader is 1, 3, and his wingman is 1, 4.
And it goes down like that. So the second flight lead is 2, 1, the third flight
lead is 3, 1, and the fourth flight lead is 4, 1. So right now, as we can see
here, at Datalink position 1, 4, 1 is being displayed on the Datalink, which is
myself. So now we have 4, 2 is in position 2, 4, 3, and then 4, 4. So everyone
in my flight is on the Datalink. Now I can add the other flight leaders to the
Datalink, or I can add an entire flight. By this little green thing right here
shows you what you have selected. All you're going to do is press down on the
ICP rocker until you go to a blank space. So right now I have position 5
selected. Now let's say I want to add the other flights. I know that in this
package there are 3 other flights. There's F5s, some Eurofighters, and something
else. Now all I do, let's say I want to add the flight lead from flight 1, I
just go type 1, 1 and then enter. And then you'll see what happens is that on
your HSD you'll see 1, 1. 1, 1 is now displayed on the HSD and it will also be
on my FCR as well. You can see them right here. 1, 1, 49,000 feet. So when
someone's on the Datalink it appears both on the FCR and on the HSD. Now if I
wanted to I could add the other flights. 2, 1, 3, 1, and 5, 1. Or I could add
all the ships from his flight. So let's say I can put in 1, 2, 1, 3, 1, 4. Now
we see on the Datalink and on the FCR we see all the ships. Expand the radar
image so you can see it. All the ships of the first flight. And same thing with
our HSD. I'm just going to switch sensor of interest, go over there and expand
it. You see here on the HSD all the ships of the first flight. Now when you're
flying in a large package and you want to have general situational awareness,
you're never going to want to use up all the slots on individual ships. You're
going to want to use it just for the flight leads. So let's go 2, 1. You can see
here what I'm doing over here. 3, 1. And 4, 1. Or 4, 1. Whatever. So let's go 5,
1. So now we have all of my flight and the flight leads for 1, 1, 2, 1, 3, 1,
and 5, 1 flights. And we can see here, if I zoom out on the HSD, we'll see them
all. So the second flight is to our 3 o'clock. They're about 60 miles. And the
third flight is to our 1 o'clock. They're about the same 60 miles. And then the
first flight is to our 10 o'clock and they're also about 40 miles. So let's say
you add aircraft to your data link. Now what you should note is that the first
four are designed for your own flight. So they all are one color. They're all
going to be blue. And the next four are all green. So if you're only on a two-
ship flight, I would still recommend using 5, 6, 7, and 8. This way you don't
get confused and think that you have more ships than you do. So to get out of
that, all we do is click Return. And that's how you assign aircraft to the data
link. Okay, now the next thing we're going to go over is how to assign air
contacts using the data link. So the general procedure is as follows. We're
going to spot an air contact. We're going to lock them up on the FCR. And then
on the right side of our FCR here we have the data link mode and then 1, 2, 3,
4. Each one of these numbers corresponds to who you're going to be sending the
data to. So if I lock someone up and I click 2, then it's going to say transmit
next to, it's going to say transmit on top of the number. And it's going to
transmit that FCR position to 2. And then you'll also note, it goes away rather
quickly, so let me just do it again. You'll note that on the FCR it will say 2
and then the altitude. It's basically indicating to me that I sent him data. And
that will allow you to visually see who you've assigned targets to and then sort
them. And again, make sure you expand the radar screen so you guys can actually
see what's going on. 2 sends it there. We can see 2 has been designated with
that target. And then over here on the HSD will also display the same. So you
see here, I can see that it was designated as well right here. So this is really
useful again. If you have like 4 bandits coming in on your nose, you can just
very quickly lock the first one up, assign it to 2, lock the second one up,
assign it to 3, lock the fourth one up, assign it to 4. And then on their screen
it will say data and they'll be able to, they'll get an indicator that they were
assigned. Actually it will say assigned across the HUD. And then it will be
assigned to them. And there's going to be a video segment in a moment that will
show you what it looks like in practice. Okay, we got bandits at 141 for 113,
angels 22. Two tallies. Lead sorting. To engage the first trail, angels 22
reference data link. Two tallies data engaging. Leads got the lead. All leads
notching left. Be advised, bandits inbound 122098, angels 22, data inbound. Lead
copies, going defensive. Two with you. So now that we've seen how to share data
using airborne contacts, let me show you how to do it with ground contacts. Now
in order to do this, you need to use your air to ground radar. And all you do,
this is just sharing an individual position. This isn't sharing a steer point or
anything like that. You would slew to the position that you want to share on
your FCR and then just press right control P. And then we'll see when we do
that, it says transmit on the right side of our HSD. Let me just do that one
more time. And you can also see how you can also do it off of your HSD. So for
instance, like you can see the cursor here for the FCR. We don't need to use the
GM or the GMT radar screen. We can just do it off of our, off of the HSD as
well. But the point is that you have to have the FCR as a center of interest.
You slew over what you want and then you write, and then you press right control
P. And you'll see transmitting on the right side of the FCR. And then what the
players will see is they'll see a little star, little yellow star with your
number next to it. And I'm going to show you a little video clip of what that
looks like. Now another really cool feature of the data link and arguably the
most powerful feature is that you can actually transmit steer point or mark
point information digitally. And then it will synchronize across your entire
flight. Now in order to do this, you need to press DMS down. You need to change
the center of interest from the FCR or the HUD to your right MFD to the HSD.
Okay. So we need to make the HSD the center of interest. At this point, if we
press right control P, it will digitally transmit whatever steer point we have
selected as a, as a mark point to the rest of your flight. And they'll receive
that as a steer point that they can then reference. Okay. So if we wanted to,
you know, share target eight, let's say for whatever reason, the guy in your
flight fucked up his steer points and target eight is no longer the correct,
it's no longer the correct longitudinal latitude or whatever. So you can select
target eight and then press right control P. It's going to do the exact same
thing as when we send data using the FCR as a center of interest. It will say
transmit on the right side. You'll hear a little tone, which we're not hearing
right now because I have the game pause. And then what will flash on their HUD
right about here is it will flash with a mark point and then a number. And then
they can then switch to that steer point or mark point using their ICP and the
mark points begin at 71. So the first thing that you're going to send them is
going to be 71 and each consequent steer point or mark point is going to go up.
So it'll be 71, 72, 73. And if you don't know how to do this, a really quick way
to get to steer points rather than. OK, so there's a few ways to change steer
points rather than clicking this button.
 to change steer points or by pressing S or Ctrl S, which also cycles through
steer points. An easier way to get to a really high steer point is to just click
steer point on your ICP and then type in the steer point that you want and then
press enter. And that will jump to the steer point that you entered. It's much
easier to get to than having to press S or Shift S or clicking the steer point
switch on your ICP. So what you would do is, as I said, you select the steer
point and then you press right Ctrl P. Now what if you, I mean that's pretty
useless because all we've gone over so far is selecting steer points that we
already have. So, yeah, I mean most of the time the people in your flight are
not going to mess up their flight plan and that will be a pretty useless
feature. Now what is not a useless feature is creating mark points. You can
create a steer point on the fly anywhere where you have a sensor of interest. So
the way you do this is, let's say, I'm going to unpause this, I'm going to fly
towards the shore. Okay. We see here on our ground-based radar a number of radar
contacts. I don't know what they are. They're probably buildings. It's probably
the air base that I just came from. I don't really care what they are. This is
just for demonstration purposes. Let's say that these are tanks, okay, and I see
a nice column right here. I see a nice column right here and I want to direct my
flight to attack this column. Now what I would do is I would click mark on my
ACP, number 7. Click mark. Then on your DED it's going to be asking you mark and
then what do you want the sensor to be that you're going to be marking your
steer point from. So we don't want to do HUD. Okay, so we're going to click mark
again and that's going to change it to targeting pod. We don't want targeting
pod. And zero fly. See where it says zero fly right here? That means your
current position right now. We don't want that because we don't want them to
attack the ocean. And now it's on FCR. Now how do you create the steer point? So
what we've done so far is we've selected the sensor that we want to create it
from. Now what we're going to do is we're going to actually create it. And the
way you do that is you just press TMS up on the sensor. So all I'm doing is I'm
just going to press, I'm going to slew over there to those contacts again. And
press TMS up. And now we'll see the longitude and latitude has been entered and
this is good to go. And we see also it designated as a mark point 27. So that
mark point has been created. Now what we're going to do is we're going to press
4 on our ICP, change to mark point 27. We see that it updated there with the
longitude and latitude. Then what we're going to do is we're going to do the
same thing we did before when we were sharing steer points that already existed.
And by the way, you can see the position where you made the mark point on your
HSD. It appears as a blue X. Anyway, we're going to now switch. We're now going
to switch our sensor of interest. So we're going to select the HSD as a sensor
of interest. Then we're going to press right control P. Now on everyone in your
flight screen, it's going to say mark point across the HUD again and it's also
going to show them the blue cross where your mark point was. And then if they
want to go to that, they can do it just by again clicking steer point on the ICP
and then typing in the steer point name. So this way you can say, hey, you know,
element two attack movers at mark point standby data and then send them the data
and then hopefully they got the data and then they can attack based off of that
steer point. So hopefully, and again, you don't have to use the FCR as your
sensor of interest. You could use one really useful way is just to put it on
OFLY, which means overfly. Put it on overfly. Then fly over whatever you want to
bomb and then when you're over it, just press TMS up. And you can keep pressing
TMS up. Every time you press it, it's going to create a new mark point so don't
spam it too hard. So like let's say I visually see, I see a fisherman right
there. He's conducting illegal fishery. I'll come on to him, strafe his fishing
operation and then once I'm over him, I see his boat escaping. I'm going to say,
hey, flight, reference the mark point. I just marked it by pressing TMS up and
then I just select the HSD as my sensor of interest and then press right control
P. So hopefully this tutorial was useful. I've gone over everything virtually
about the data link that you need to know. Please let me know if I can clarify
anything or go over additional topics. Thanks. Lee, be advised we've got movers
at 163 for 060. Data to follow. Data. Tally the data. Let's roll in. Two copies.
Two grand movers spotted. Bullseye 1-9-7-0-7-9-0. Mark point to follow. Data.
I'll leave copies to mark point 71. Welcome to another Falcon 4 BMS tutorial. In
this video we're going to be going over how to use the targeting pod, also known
as the TGP sniper pod or Pantera pod, and laser guided bombs, which are also
known as GBUs. So what is the targeting pod? The targeting pod is basically a
fancy camera that can view things at very long distances in thermal imaging,
also known as FLIR, and it also has the ability to emit a laser that can
actively ping and laze targets of opportunity. And what that laser guidance
allows is for you to accurately deliver bombs that have a laser guidance suite,
such as a GBU. Now this is in contrast to dumb bombs like Mark 82's or Mark 84's
that don't have any laser guidance, and once you release them they're pretty
much on their own. What differs about a GBU is that when you release it, it
actually is dumb. It's just like a Mark 84 or Mark 82. But right before it hits,
about 10 seconds before it hits, it can accept terminal guidance from your
aircraft. And what that implies is that you can laze the target and it will
guide the bomb onto the target. So this sort of greatly expands what bombs can
do. It allows you to hit moving targets, for instance. It also allows you to
deliver precision ordnance into windows and things like that. So how do you get
the targeting pod? Oh, I should also add that the targeting pod can also be used
to look at other aircraft. It has an air-to-air mode. I'm going to only go over
that very briefly in this video because it's very useless and you'll never
really use it in combat. But it can also look at air-to-air contacts. I should
state that for the record. Okay, now moving on, how do you enable the targeting
pod? Okay, the targeting pod is a separate module that can be installed onto
your aircraft in the loadout screen. You'll see a little check box right above
the ordnance list. It'll say TGP and there might also be an HTS there depending
on what version of the Viper you're flying. All you need to do to install the
module on your aircraft is just click that box, check that box. It'll turn green
and then you have a targeting pod on your aircraft. Now, the first thing we're
going to do when we're using the targeting pod is we need to turn on laser arm.
That's left of your left MFD, right above master arm. You can use the targeting
pod without laser arm being on, but the laser will not be active, meaning you
can't provide guidance for bombs. So we're going to put that into the up
position. Next thing we're going to do is we're going to show you air-to-ground
mode. So let's go ahead and switch into master air-to-ground mode. What we need
to do is we need to provide a page on your MFD for the TGP. So by default we
have weapon. Let's go ahead and replace weapon TGP by double clicking under
weapon and then clicking TGP. We now have the targeting pod display active. You
can switch between the various pages and back to it if you want. Okay, now it's
in standby mode by default, meaning it's pretty much off. To take it out of
standby mode and put it into air-to-ground or air-to-air mode, we need to click
above where it says standby. We need to click above that. Then we'll see the
available modes on the right and left. So you can select air-to-ground mode. If
you're in master air-to-ground mode, you can select air-to-air mode, which would
be right here if you're in master air-to-air mode. If you're in navigation mode,
you can select either air-to-air mode or air-to-ground mode. So in order to
select the mode, we're just going to click next to AG. We're now in air-to-
ground mode. This is the default view that you'll see. We're just going to very
quickly run over everything. The first thing we're going to start with is the
center here, not SOI. It's gray. You can barely see it probably. Not SOI is
telling you that this MFD is not the sensor of interest. Now in order to
manipulate the targeting pod, it has to be the sensor of interest. How you
change your sensor of interest is DMS down. So by default, the sensor of
interest is on the left MFD. We can know that because there's a white outline
surrounding the MFD. So if we wanted to manipulate the targeting pod, we'd have
to press DMS down to switch to the MFD, which I'm going to do right now. You'll
see that there is now a white outline surrounding the MFD. Now that we've done
that, the not SOI disappears and we can just talk about the other features of
the MFD now. So where it says AG, that's telling you what master mode you're in
for the targeting pod. PTR is not implemented. The center where it says wide and
then it has 1.0x under it, that's the current magnification level of the
targeting pod. So there's two modes. There's wide and narrow. You can switch
between them by clicking on the button above where it says wide. And within each
greater magnification mode, wide or narrow, you can also zoom in and zoom out
further. So we have wide and narrow. And keep in mind, in order to zoom in or
zoom out any further than that, you have to have this selected as the sensor of
interest. If we wanted to zoom in more, we would just press control and then F3
and F4 zooms in. And we can see that we switched to narrow, we can zoom in even
further down to like a meter of detail. It's very, very amazing how far we can
zoom in. So I'm just going to slew over here, try to find something to look at
that actually exists. Whoa. So I'm masking in my aircraft. Okay, here we go. So
this is a distant air field or a targeting range. I can now zoom in and zoom
out. We can see things which we weren't able to see before. Okay, now the
button, the option to the right of the zoom is override and that will just
basically turn your targeting pod on and off. To the right of that is control,
which you can customize the targeting pod, which we'll do in a moment. Below
that, where it says 12380, that is the current altitude and barometric of the
aircraft. And we can see on our HUD, the radar altimeter, 12380. Okay, below
that where it says WHOT, that is the current polarity of the targeting pod. So
right now we're in white hot, which is WHOT. If we click that, we can switch it
to black hot and to TV. Okay. Now white hot and black hot are FLIR modes. They
are thermal imaging. Okay, so anything that is emitting heat, anything that's
emitting heat in this mode will appear as white. I'm just trying to find
something. Let's see here. Trying to find some hot. Oh, here we go. There's a
little town here. Now these buildings are showing up as white because they are
hot objects. They're hotter than the ambient terrain. And we can see here,
zooming in, this is FLIR. This is the white hot mode. Now if we click that
again, we'll switch to black hot and now anything that's hot is going to show up
as black. Okay. Now what are the downsides of FLIR? Okay. Number one is that
it's fuzzier. The image is fuzzier. Like we can see here, it's a little, they're
like blocky. The outlines of the buildings are a little blockier. And it also
doesn't zoom in as far as TV mode. But that's pretty much the only disadvantage
that it has. The biggest advantage is very obvious and that is anything that's
hot will stick out like a sore thumb. You'll be able to easily see it and
acquire it. So if we switch to TV, we can see that it's much more zoomed in. And
we can really zoom in far now with TV. I can actually make out the billboards
here on this building. And this is basically just a closed circuit TV system
when you're in TV mode. It's, you know, there's nothing special about it. It's
pretty simple. Yeah, that's TV. So under that, all this stuff is pretty much
unimplemented. Where it says SP, all I will say is do not press that. Okay,
that's snow plow mode for the targeting pod. And it's not implemented right now
and it's actually buggy. So do not use snow plow mode with the targeting pod.
Okay, now the, back to the center now, we have a crosshair which is basically
telling you where your sensor is currently pointed. Okay. We also have, and by
the way, if you're in the narrow view mode, then you won't have these, see these
brackets around the crosshair? This only appears in wide mode. So if you're
zoomed in, like let's say you want to know if you're zoomed in or not and you
don't want to look up or whatever, for whatever reason, you can just, you can
just go off the brackets surrounding the crosshair. So there's no brackets if
it's on narrow mode. Okay, now under that, under the crosshair, it will tell you
what mode your laser is currently in. And we're going to go into that in a
minute. We're not going into that yet, but that's just, just so you know where
it is, that's where it is. To the right of that is telling you if the laser is
armed, if it's L, solid L and the laser is armed, if it's flashing, then it's
actually emitting. So right now we're not actually emitting. So we're not lazing
what we're looking at. There's two ways to laze something that you're looking
at. There's the second trigger indent on the joystick, which you're never going
to use. I mean you could use, but you rarely would use. The other thing is that
when you pickle, it will automatically laze when it, when the bomb is about to
go terminal and that will flash L right before it impacts. Okay, now three,
four, six, seven. This is the stations on your aircraft. Basically it's telling
you what weapon you have selected. So that's station three, station four,
station six, station seven. Three and seven are on the outer pylon, or not on
the outer pylon, but they're outer on the wing and four and six are inner right
next to the cockpit. Okay, under that where it says T14.1, that is the range or
whatever you're looking at. Okay, we can see how it changes when I slew around.
Okay, to the right of that where it says ready, that's just telling you your
master arm mode. So if it says ready, then your master arm is on. Go ahead and
turn off master arm. You can see that it goes away. And if we put it on the
simulator, it'll say sim there instead. Okay, this bottom, the last thing that
we're going to see here is at the bottom right, it has a time. Okay, that's the
time to weapon release, also known as time to target. Okay, now when you
actually pickle and the bomb comes off the rail, that will switch the time to
impact. So let's say you engage something, you know, we're a minute out, it goes
down to zero, we release the bomb, then it will go up to like 20 or 30 or
whatever. If it gets down to zero and you don't see a splash, then your bomb did
not receive terminal guidance or the dud or something's wrong with the bomb or
you did your attack wrong or whatever. But the bottom line is that it didn't
impact where you wanted. Okay, now we're going to go over, we're going to
briefly go over the control area. A lot of this stuff is unimplemented. The only
thing that you really should know about is over here on the left where it says N
slash M, okay, if we turn that on, go and click control, we'll get out of that.
Two very important things are added to the targeting pod, which I always
recommend having on. Okay, the first thing that gets added at the top left here,
this is the longitude and latitude of whatever you're looking at. So you can
actually use the targeting pod as a forward air controller. You can find targets
for other people, give them the longitude and latitude and then they can plot
that into their ICP and then attack whatever you're looking at yourself. Another
thing that it adds is it just tells you where north is, it adds this as well. So
N is north and the arrow points in one direction north is. So north is currently
to the six o'clock of the current view that I'm looking at. Now a final and very
important, although confusing aspect of the targeting pod is the situation
awareness indicator and that is this little white square. You'll see that it
moves when I move my targeting pod. This is telling me the attitude and pitch of
my nose in relation to the ground stabilized target. So it's really confusing.
I'm not even going to try to explain it. It'll probably make your head explode.
It's something that you're probably going to need to just play around with or
read the manual in order to understand it. The bottom line is that if this white
square is above the target area, it means that you're flying head on to the
target. So if you can imagine your nose lined up directly at the target, you're
flying right into it. Now when you fly over the target, you're going to see the
white square. It's going to flip to the six o'clock position. That's just
telling you that you're flying away from it and that your nose is facing the
opposite direction of the target. And if you move off the gimbals, you'll see it
does a similar thing. It'll slew around to left or right. That's just telling
you that that's just showing you where your nose is. And again, it's
counterintuitive. It takes a long time to understand how it works. So just watch
it as you're making attacks and eventually you'll figure it out. Now that's
pretty much it for the components of the targeting pod. The next thing we're
going to go over is how to actually prosecute an attack. So I pretty much reset
the jet. We're going to start from scratch. I'm going to put my laser arm on.
Then I'm going to switch into master air to ground mode. I'm going to select the
targeting pod on the page. Switch into air to ground mode. And just to preface
this, the situation is that we have a bunch of targets at the Cotar range, which
is steer point five, target five. Right now we're referencing the IP. So the
idea behind using the targeting pod usually is that you designate a target steer
point in the briefing. Then you'd reference it using your FCR and then you'd
snap the targeting pod to the FCR and be able to view whatever the target is
that way. So right now I'm at the IP and we can note that if I change steer
points, it changes the targeting pod is slave to it. So if I change steer
points, it also changes on the targeting pod. So I'm going to go ahead and
change it from IP four to the target. And we also note that on the FCR, it also
changes automatically. This is covered in my CCR PNCC IP video. So switch to the
target. See it's snapped there. It also snapped here. Now we can see on the
screen here, um, the left side of the cross air, that's the range apparently.
You have to take my report. And it looks like the steer point is actually all
for the range to the right of it. Because as we can see the on your HUD, it
works exactly like CCR P because we are in CCR B on the FCR. The targeting
target designator box will show you exactly where the targeting pod is viewing.
So right now it's on top of the steer point. If I move it off, we can see the
steer point diamond. So for whatever reason, the steer point is off of the
range. Now that's fine. And I'm going to show you how to make adjustments using
the targeting pod. So first thing we're going to do is we're going to press DMS
down to switch center of interest to the targeting pod. So press DMS down. Now
if it's not already slaved to the FCR, you can press TMS down. Okay. So I press
TMS down. It's already slaved to the FCR. Now if I want to look around, I need
to ground stabilize the targeting pod. So in order to do that, I press TMS up
and that will switch it from, uh, uh, steer point mode to, uh, area mode, IR
area mode. Okay. So I press TMS up and we'll see it becomes ground stabilized. I
can now slew it around using my arrow keys. And, uh, let's just go over in depth
exactly what this means under the crosshair. So the first word IR is telling you
what polarity mode you're in. So it's either, or what visual mode you're in.
It's going to say IR or it's going to say TV. It'll say IR for white hot or for,
um, black hot. And that just means infrared. The next is the, uh, tracking mode
that it's in. And there's technically three tracking modes. There's area mode,
which is pretty much used against buildings and it's used against, uh, you know,
large targets or groupings. And, um, it's the least accurate mode, but it's also
the most common mode. Then there's point mode. And the way you'd enter point
mode is you'd slew over something and then press TMS up. And it's designed to
work on targets that have well contrasting corners. So tanks, aircraft that are
on the ground, stuff like that, anything that has a contrasting corner, very
sharp corners, uh, you can switch into point mode. And the advantage of point
mode is that it allows for real time tracking of whatever you have in point
mode. So if you slew over a tank, for instance, and you press TMS up, it'll
switch into point mode. And then rather than you have to move around the
targeting pod in order to stay on the target, it will actually snap the target
and then stay on it. Now there's a problem though, because in this version of
BMS, point mode is very buggy and it doesn't really work. It works maybe one out
of a hundred times when it should. So in almost all circumstances, you're going
to be using area mode and that's fine because it's just as accurate. It just
doesn't move, uh, it doesn't track moving targets that well. Now I said there
was three modes. The third mode is called computed rates. Okay. And computed
rates is a mode that happens when, um, the targeting pod is masked. Okay. And
masked, masking the targeting pod is a major concept. When the targeting pod is
masked, it means that the laser coming out of the targeting pod is hitting into
your aircraft. And it's usually caused from when you do too hard of a turn or
you're diving, stuff like that will cause the targeting pod to become masked.
And if it's masked, then the laser cannot provide guidance. The way, okay, so
the way the aircraft works is, or the target pod works is, if, if it knows that
it's going to hit into your aircraft, it just turns the laser off. And the
reason for that is, in real life, is that the laser is not eye safe. So you can
basically blind the pilot or other friendly aircraft. If the laser hits into the
aircraft and then refracts in whatever way. So that's modeled in the game. And,
um, if it's in computed rates mode, then it's because the laser is being masked
and you'll know that the laser is being masked if the L has an M next to it.
Okay. And also area will change to rate. You never want to give terminal
guidance in rate because the laser is very inaccurate or it's off. And the
target pod is basically making calculations on whatever it previously was
lasing. So it's very inaccurate and I would highly recommend not providing
terminal guidance to a bomb in rate. Okay. Now, as I said, the third part of
this, uh, sentence under the crosshair is just telling you that the laser is
armed. It's L. If it's flashing, it means that it's emitting. And as I just said
before, if there's an M next to it, it means that it's being masked. And another
way you'll know if, uh, the laser is being masked is that the crosshair will
actually flash the crosshair will flash and it will also say mask on your HUD
next to the meatball. So now that we've gone over the basic, you know, mechanics
of moving around and knowing what you're looking at, things like that, we're
going to actually do an attack now. Um, so let's go ahead and switch to, um, GB
12. So right now I have, uh, two GB 24s, which are these, uh, I used to use them
messed up. You have two GB 24s, which are these big, big ass laser guided bombs
on my wings. And we also have, uh, four GB 12s, which are 500 pound bombs. The
GB 12s are 1000 pounds. Uh, both of them are laser guided. If it has GB in the
title, then it's laser guided or but as GBU. Um, so I'm going to go ahead and
use my GB 12s. And what you do is, is you just basically slew the crosshair into
what you want to hit. And then you just fly into the fall line on your HUD as
you would CCRP. So you can technically, you don't have to be hitting anything.
If I wanted to, I can move this targeting bot all the way close to me until I
was right under me and then I could release the bomb right now. And, um, yeah,
so the basic point is, the basic idea is that you'd slew over what you want to
hit and then just fly into it using CCRP. And as I said before, if you don't
understand CCRP, just check out my CCRP video. I'm not going to go over that in
this video. And another thing is, um, if you saw what happened before, you
might've missed it. I actually got disoriented. I, uh, slew down because I was
trying to show you guys something and then I tried to find the targeting range
and I got disoriented. This is a great example of what you can do if that
happens. You can just press TMS down, okay? And then it will snap right back to
the steer point or whatever your FCR is referencing. Okay? And then you can
press TMS up. You can go right back into area mode and find what you want to
attack. Simple as that. So that being said, let's finally do an attack. Now, I'm
too far away from the targets in order to see them, so we're going to have to
fly closer. I'm going to unpause the game. We're about, um, 60 feet away from
the target. So we're 16.5 miles out, as you can see right here, for about three
minutes to weapon release. If I were to attack, whatever I'm referencing now,
you can see it's nice and ground stabilized. And the targeting pod also can scan
about 360 degrees, almost. Okay, now we're starting to see stuff. So I'm going
to pause this. You can see here on the targeting pod, you can see these little
white specks and also what looks like a radar from on the left side of the
targeting range. So I'm just going to zoom in, put it under narrow field of
view. We now see that that's clearly a radar of some sort. But we're not going
to be attacking that. We're going to be attacking something on the range. And we
can see here, you know, if we're in a wide field of view, you can barely see
what's going on there. You can barely make out anything. But if you go into
narrow, we can see a lot easier. And remember that you can zoom in even further
than that. So let's go ahead and do that. Now we can almost make out what it is.
Those look like F4s. These look like armored fighting vehicles of some sort. We
have some helicopters here, some MIGs, some targets, some more MIGs. So what
we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and engage these F4s. And as we get
closer, we'll be able to see them a lot easier. And we can see them pretty good
actually in TV mode. If we switch to TV, like I said, TV is actually has better
resolution, but it's just, it's not a flare image. So if we were zoomed out, if
we were zoomed out in TV mode, you know, we might not, and we were just slewing
around, we might miss them because they're not going to pop out. You know what I
mean? They're not going to be popping out white or black against the gray
backgrounds. So that being said, we zoom in here and let's go attack these F4s.
So we're going to fly into the fall line just like we would CCRP. We're about 13
and a half miles out. For whatever reason, when you're flying, if the crosshairs
leave, if they leave the target, just put them back on. It's that simple. Using
your arrow keys. So we're going to go ahead and engage these F4s. And as we get
into the fall line, we're going to go ahead and engage these F4s. Okay, now
before we, before we release, let's just quickly go over what we're going to see
here. So right now, you know, we're going to get to the time of weapon release.
Okay. Then this right here, the weapon release time is going to change to
whatever the time to impact is after the weapon release. It's going to flash
when it's giving terminal guidance to the bomb. Okay. So just go ahead and look
for that when I'm doing my attack run. And slew around the targeting bottom. I
want to change targets. We're about nine miles out. We're about 30 seconds away
from release. Okay. Here comes the release queue. If I wanted to, I could
actually loft the bomb right now. Here comes the release. Okay. So we're going
to watch. Now we're going to watch. Watch the time to impact on the bottom
right. Right now it's 12 seconds. When it gets below 10, it's going to go
terminal. We're going to see that L flash. There it goes. And impact in two
seconds. Right now. Boom. Okay. So we're going to watch. Watch the time to
impact on the bottom right. Right now it's 12 seconds. And impact in two
seconds. Right now. Boom. So that's how you do a run. I'm just going to do one
more just to show you guys how it works. I mean that's pretty much all there is
to using the targeting pod. It's pretty much just CCRP with a little bit extra
which is, you know, you're pretty much just, um. Okay. We can see right now
what's happening is I'm actually masking the targeting pod. And see it says
mask. And there's an M next to the L. And the reason for that is I'm just turned
in such a fashion that the target's pretty much behind me. And probably just the
tail of my aircraft is blocking the targeting pod. If I turn very slightly to
the left, to the right, it should unmask. Okay. So that's what I'm doing. Okay.
Now we're back into area mode. Let's go ahead and, uh. We can be attacked next.
Let's kill one of these ATCs. We're about four and a half to the miles out. It's
going to be a pretty close release. Alright. 15 seconds to impact. Okay. Flying
over the target now. Laser on at seven seconds. Impact. Now. Boom. So that was
the basics of how to use the targeting pod in air to ground. It's not very
complicated. It does require a bit of introduction in the terminology and the
targeting pod has a lot of information that can display on it so it's a little
overwhelming. That being said, there's only one more feature that we're going to
be going over and that is the air to ground targeting pod. So again, when we're
in master area mode, we're just going to switch and add the targeting pod. And
now you'll see when we switch from standby mode, there's going to be an AA
option available. We're going to switch to that. And now it's going to display
something if I lock it up on the FCR. And we can see right now the targeting pod
is still sleeved on the ground. If we wanted to, we could just switch over there
and press DMS down or TMS down and now it's scanning what we have on the FCR. So
that's it. Should be some F16s behind me so I'm just going to... Yeah, there we
go. There we go. We got some F16s. Okay, so we can see here I've locked up a
contact on the FCR and now it's sleeved automatically to the air to air
targeting pod. And this pretty much is exactly the same as the air to ground
mode except it just is able to contact air units. Simple as that. And it's
pretty simple. The only real difference in this mode is that you can't zoom in
any further than the default zooms. And you have narrow and you have wide but
that's pretty much it. You can't zoom in any further than that. That's pretty
much the concept here. If we get closer... I mean, obviously right now this
guy's at about eight miles and we can barely see him on the targeting pod. But
if we get closer, I mean, obviously we can barely see him on the targeting pod.
So this is not very effective for identifying what you're looking at. But...
That's the basic concept. So I hope you guys enjoyed this video. Please let me
know if there's anything else that I can go over. That's pretty much all there
is to the targeting pod. We could go further in depth like buddy lasing and I
could fully explain the little square that's floating around but we'll leave
that for another time. So please leave any comments or suggestions in the
comments. Thanks. Hi, welcome to another Falcon 4 BMS tutorial. This tutorial is
going to be on the ILS system, also known as the instrument landing system. And
before we jump in game, we need to go over some basic concepts behind ILS. This
is not going to be a lengthy lecture or anything like that. This is going to be
a few images and a very brief introduction to what we're dealing with. This way
you have a point of reference once we get in game. Now that being said, ILS is a
radio navigation aid that allows a pilot to make a landing without having visual
on the runway. And the way this is done is a series of radio towers are
transmitting navigation cues to the aircraft. And there's two types of different
forms of guidance. There's the localizer and there is the glide slope. And these
are two different things that are being transmitted to the aircraft by various
radio towers as they approach the runway. The glide slope is this vertical
column here and it's guidance for the pitch of the aircraft. And the localizer
is lateral guidance and that's represented here by this rectangular horizontal
box. So when these two cues come together, it allows you to make a precise
landing based upon the attitude and the inclination of your aircraft. And it's
really useful for when you want to do a landing in really bad weather or it's
also useful just for general navigation. And for someone who is new to doing
landings, it can be pretty useful. And speaking of doing landings, this is a
very useful tool for people who are new to doing landings. And speaking of doing
landings, this video will also have just a tutorial on how to do a landing.
Because I think that's why some people were demanding this is because they don't
really know how to do a landing. So I'm going to just do, at the end of this
video there will be a section on how to do a regular landing without ILS. So if
you want that go to the table of contents below, jump to that right now. If not
continue watching and we'll go over ILS. So I'm just going to run through some
more images. So the idea here is that the ILS system is sort of creating this
cone that you have to fly within. You have to fly within the parameters of this
cone in order to make the landing. And the cone has a physical topology. So it
moves, or rather it doesn't move, but it's a pre-planned route that your
aircraft has to fly. Sort of like riding a rope or a radar or something like
that. You have to follow it. And as you follow it, it will continue to give you
more and more information so that you make corrections and finally land the way
you want. And here's another image, just sort of also showing this idea that
you're flying into a cone and the cone gets thinner and thinner until you
terminate on the runway. Here's a final image. And this is also showing sort of
physical topology of the ILS system and the approach. You can see here that this
aircraft has been instructed to follow this straight line and then it sort of
goes down as you approach a certain threshold and the cone gets thinner and
thinner until you end up on the runway. And it also has an abort heading all the
way to the terminating end of it. So that's the theoretical basis of ILS. If you
want to know more about it, the theory of it, I highly recommend going to
Wikipedia. I really tried to simplify this. This way people don't get bored and
turn this off. That's the basic theory behind it. Now in order to use ILS
navigation in the game, we need to supply the aircraft with the unique ILS
frequency and course heading for the runway we want to land at. So the basic
theory here is that each ILS enabled runway has a unique transmitting frequency
and that has to be entered into the aircraft. And we're going to go in game,
I'll show you how to do that in a minute, but before we go in game we have to
get that frequency, we have to get that runway heading. We can't do that from in
the game. So this is one limitation of BMS as opposed to Allied 4 or the
original Falcon 4, is that you'd have like a kneeboard in the game, you'd get
your ILS information out of there, the course heading, you could do it on the
fly. But kneeboards don't exist in BMS, at least not at this point. So before we
even get in game we have to get that stuff. So where do you get it from? Well
there's a few places. The most common place is in the BMS folder. Right now I'm
in the BMS folder. I go to DOCS, then I go to Airport Approach and Navigation
Charts, then I select the area or region that I want to get the ILS for. So we
go to South Korea, and then it has a listing of all the different runways, and
each one of these folders has ILS, TACAN, and airport diagram images inside of
them. So we'll go ahead and select Kimpo, and you'll see in here that there's a
variety of images. This image is an airport diagram for Kimpo. Not really useful
for our flight, but it's for ILS per se. And then we have some Kimpo departure.
This is like a pre-planned departure route for Kimpo. Now this is getting
interesting. This is the ILS departure plan and arrival plan for runway 14L. And
this actually has the information that we need. So this is the ILS frequency. It
has at the top here, it has some really good information. It has a TACAN
frequency, which we're not going to need because we're using ILS, the tower
frequencies, then right here, this is the key. It has the ILS frequency. You've
got to copy that down. It also has the, where it says LOC, this is the heading
of the runway. So we've got to copy the ILS frequency and the heading of the
runway. It also tells you the GPS location of it, the elevation. And this is
like a, it also shows you the approach that you should make for an ideal
approach. In reality, in real aviation, pilots will always fly pre-planned
approaches. They don't just take off and fly wherever they want or land however
they want. It's all done by these pre-planned approaches. So this is, that's
what this image is showing you. It's showing you how to do a pre-planned
approach. And it also has, I'm not going to go over all of this because I doubt
any of you will do this and I don't even do it. So, but what you do need to know
is where to get the ILS frequency and the heading. And down here, this image at
the bottom is pretty useful. It shows you the elevation and range at which point
the ILS will be accessible to your aircraft. And as a rule of thumb, ILS
information will
 will usually be available about 18 or 19 miles away from the airfield. And the
ILS localizer beam and the glide slope beam usually start off at about 2,000
feet. And you can usually get guidance higher up than that, but in order to do a
landing you usually need to get down to 2,000. We can see here just the pre-
planned route. You start off at 4,000 all the way over here. You start off at
4,000 feet where that star is, DME 31, head northeast of DME 14, which is a...
And then you slowly descend to 2,000 and then hit the ILS, follow the ILS for
continued guidance. It also shows you the ILS on the actual big image. That's
this sort of arrow head above the airfield to the northwest. Now you could get
information in this way, but I find it to be very tedious. I personally don't
use it. Another source is in this file here, and this is back in the airport
approach and navigation charts folder. We have a PDF called Korean Volume BMS
1002.PDF. And this file contains a table which has all the approach information
that you need for the various air bases in South Korea. So we have the listing
of air bases here on the left. There are tower frequencies, attack and channel,
attack and range. Now for our purposes, what's important is the ILS, the ILS
frequency, and its associated runway, the associated runway that the ILS
frequency is attached to. So we can see the top one here, this is Cheongju, and
the ILS is 111.7, and that's for runway 23R. And of course, we find our friend
Kimbo here. And Kimbo has four different ILS frequencies for four different
runways and approaches. That's because each different approach must have a
unique frequency because it gives unique guidance information. So we can
approach the runway from the north at runway 14L or 14R, and there's two
different frequencies for either one of those approaches. And then there's also
two different frequencies for the two southern approaches. So you need to have,
you need to copy this down now, copy down the ILS frequency. You can print this
thing out, probably come in use. I personally don't use this and I also don't
use the images that are in the folders. I use a fan made interactive website
that has all the navigation information on it, and is actually a lot easier to
use. So I'm going to give you guys a link to this in the video description, but
this is an interactive map of Korea, and you can click on any of these air
bases, and then it will show you the same information that's on the images,
except it's more interactive, and you can copy it and you can send links to your
friends, and it's a lot better to use. So I'm just going to zoom in here by just
holding down control and scrolling on my mouse wheel. This isn't like a feature
of the website or anything, it's just me using Firefox. And we can see here
Kimpo, just south of Seoul. I'm going to click on that. And then we see it has
the same information that was on that navigation chart. It has GPS, elevation,
the runways, the TACAN, tower frequencies. Oh, and what is this down here? This
is the important stuff. It's got all the runways with their ILS frequencies and
the course heading for the runway. So we see here our good friend 104Left,
109.9144. That's all you need to do an ILS approach. So if you just want to do
it dirty style and do it by ear, that's all you need is those two pieces of
information. But if you do want to follow the pre-planned approach and make a
textbook landing, you can still access the navigation charts from this website.
This is the exact same image that is in the BMS folder. Okay, so we're now in
game. We know what runway we want to land at. We know the runway heading and we
know the ILS frequency. First thing we're going to do is we're going to go to
where our HSI is. To the left of our HSI is this knob. This knob selects the
navigation mode that the F-16 is in. So by default it's on nav. We're going to
left click and switch it to ILS slash nav. Then we're going to go up and check
out the HUD. So the first thing you're going to notice is that right above the
mock indicator it's going to say ILS. And we're also going to have a cross on
our flight path marker. We're going to go over what that cross means in a
moment. But for now we need to enter the frequency for the ILS. We also need to
enter the runway heading. So we're going to click 1 on our ICP. And then we'll
see these green asterisks in a space. That's for the frequency. We're going to
go ahead and enter in 1099 and then enter. And the runway heading is then where
it says CRU CRS. We're going to enter the runway heading right there. 144 and
then enter. So we're now good to go. What you need to realize though is that
we're not going to receive any ILS guidance whatsoever until we're at about 18
or 19 miles. So right now we're 26 miles away from home plate. We can very, very
faintly see it through our 1 o'clock. See the threshold of the runway. We're
going to need to get a little bit closer. And then when we get closer we'll
start to get some initial guidance. So we're now in game. We're going to do an
ILS approach. Before we do that though we're going to go over the basic HUD
symbology of this cross. So this vertical line is the localizer line. It's that
lateral guidance that I was referring to in the earlier part of this video. The
horizontal line is the glide slope guidance. When either of these lines become
solid then you have valid guidance. So right now neither is valid. That is
because as I've gone over before we're too far from the air base in order to get
guidance. When we get within about 18 or 19 miles, 18.8 to be exact, the
localizer will become solid and we'll also get some command steering cues. And
from there we'll get more and more guidance until we have full guidance,
including pitch guidance and some steering cues. And then we'll line up on the
runway and land. That being said, let's go ahead and unpause the game. I'm going
to reference the home plate. You can see the runway to my 12 o'clock. It's about
22 miles out. I'm going to start flying at general intercept. Right now I have
no ILS guidance. I know the final heading for the runway is 144. I'm going to
shoot for that. Okay, we now see we're now about 18.8 miles. The cross has no
longer snapped onto my flight path marker. And the reason for that is now that
we actually have some data and it's no longer just arbitrarily centered there.
We also see on the top of our on our artificial horizon, we have a small circle
and that's the command steering cue. Now if I were to put my flight path marker
on that command steering cue, we should intercept the localizer and roll into
that ILS cone. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to line up generally on that
heading of that command steering cue, but I'm also going to be dropping some
altitude because we're too high for landing. You see the airfield to my 10
o'clock. We're about 17 miles out. We can also see that the localizer is solid.
And when we get a little bit closer, we're going to intercept the localizer
fully and then we're going to see the localizer sort of come to life. It's going
to start shifting to the left. It's going to guide us onto the final approach.
Got to be at about 2000 feet in order to get full guidance. Runways now to my 10
o'clock, almost 9 o'clock. We see the command steering cue move to the left as
we come onto the, into the cone. Also the localizer shifting to the left. Keep
the flight path marker on your localizer. Almost on final. Should begin to get
pitch guidance shortly. Seven miles out. You hear those tones under the ILS
beacons. There's middle, outer and inner beacons. Okay. Now what we have, we've
fully intercepted the glide slope. We have, it's hard to see because it's a
little cluttered, but the glide slope guidance marker has become solid. We also
have a new indicator next to our flight path marker. It's a upright circle. It's
a circle with an upright line with an X on it. Okay. This is the command
steering cue. It's jumped from the artificial horizon to next to the flight path
marker in the ILS. Pretty much all we need to do now to fly onto this final
heading is we just need to put the flight path marker on that cue and then it
will, it will line up everything perfectly for us. So I'm going to unpause the
game. I'm going to put my gear down and I'm going to put the meatball onto that
cue. And by the way, if you were to fly a pre-planned approach, you wouldn't
have to do any of this, any of this jinking. You could just fly it and it would
be pretty much centered the entire time. Now we can see everything's lined up.
This is ideal. And as we approach, we're going to, we're going to want to put
our meatball onto the three degree nose down line. And I'm going to go over how
to do a basic landing in the end of this video. We're on final now. Okay. Now
the next thing we're going to go over in the video is really the most practical
application of ILS and that is doing an ILS landing in horrible conditions. Now
you can really, you can barely see anything. There's a very thick cloud layer
below me, but there is a massive storm brewing under this cloud layer. I'm going
to end with almost no visibility. I'm going to use ILS to get onto the runway
and to land safely. Drop altitude. And you know, this is really where your HSD
and your flight plan really becomes important. It's less important when you can
visually see the runway, but it's very important in in these sort of conditions
because you know, when you're outside of ILS range, you still need to guide this
thing so it can be with, you know, so you're relatively lined up in a reasonable
manner. In order to do that, you're going to have to just look at your flight
plan and just approximate it until you're within ILS range, at which point you
can get some more precise guidance. Okay. So we now have some ILS. Altitude.
Altitude. Right about 9000 feet. Look at that command steering cue. Fly
intercepts. The runway should be about my 10 o'clock right now, about 16 miles.
We're still above the cloud layer. We're going to go under in a moment. Should
be at my 10 o'clock according to the flight plan. About 14 miles. Okay, we're
now under the cloud layer. You can see there's a really nasty storm here.
There's rain flying past the canopy. I should actually pay attention to my
landing. We're at about 6000 feet. You can barely see anything. There's about
three or four miles visibility here. The runway is now to my 10 o'clock still.
We're about 5000 feet. Command steering cue is starting to move to the left.
Follow it in. That drops in altitude. You can see now that we have localizer
guidance, just like before. Runway. I got the glideslope. I'm going to move my
flight marker onto the command steering cue now. We're about eight miles out.
Gear down. Now at this point I can see the runway lights. This is pretty much
the entire purpose of ILS. Just to get you so you can visually see it. At this
point if I wanted to, I could just terminate the ILS landing and just land
visually. By the time I get there I'm going to be able to see the runway. There
are going to be times when you're not going to have that luxury. You're not
going to have the luxury of being able to see the runway at all. Maybe the
visibility would be even worse than in this situation. At which case you'd have
to fly ILS the entire way, even to touchdown. Now we have full guidance. This is
optimal. Coming in a little slow. I'm just going to increase the power a bit. A
little bit of a crosswind due to the storm. We're going to run for the threshold
here. At this point visually land it. And we're on the ground. So that's how to
use ILS to land in horrible conditions. You can see there's still a storm
rolling past our screen. You stop, you can see the rain pooling. And you can use
ILS to land in even worse conditions. You know, 100 foot, 200 foot visibility.
You can use ILS to touchdown on the runway using no visual at all. Now the next
part of this video is a general tutorial on landing. And there's a few basic
concepts that you need to know in order to do a good landing. Number one is when
you touchdown you want to be below 200 knots. Preferably between 180 and 190
knots. The second thing is you're going to want to touchdown with three degrees
down. Three degrees nose down. The third thing is you're going to want to land
on the threshold at the beginning of the runway. Now how we're going to land
right now is going to be pretty unrealistic. Because we're just going to
visually guide ourselves in and just land sort of based on our intuition. And as
I went over before, you know, realistically we'd be approaching in a pre-brief
pattern. And you know, everyone would be approaching and taking off in the same
way. This way to minimize or completely eliminate collision risk. But the way
we're going to do this now is we're just going to land it the way most of you
guys will probably land. Which is you just feel it and then you land. So right
now I have the runway to my 10 o'clock. And I'm just going to pause this. We're
going to take a look at the runway. So, actually, let's get some altitude first.
Or at least turn so you can see the runway a little better. And then whatever.
So the runway is to my 10 o'clock. What I want to do is I want to turn left onto
the runway when I'm approximately, when it's approximately to my 9 o'clock. But
not quite my 9 o'clock. Because otherwise I'll overshoot it. So I basically have
the fly intercept on the runway. But I don't want to do it too late. Otherwise
I'll overshoot the runway. And of course you can make corrections. It's not life
or death. But you know, normally you want to be ideal. And another note on speed
is that you're not going to want to bring down your gear until you're below 300
knots. Otherwise your gear can be damaged or even rip off. Now we're dropping
altitude. Our final landing approach, you know, 2,000, 3,000 feet is good. The
runway is at my 10 o'clock right now. Once it's to my almost 9 o'clock, like,
you know, 9 and a half o'clock. Then we're going to turn left and align
ourselves off the runway. And the basic idea is we're going to put our meatball
on the 3 degrees nose down mark. And we're going to put that also on the
threshold of the runway. Okay, cool. Now from this range we can actually see
what I wanted to show you before. Now let's talk about...actually can we? Okay,
let's talk about the basic anatomy of a runway, okay? So at the beginning of the
runway you have these white boxes, okay? Right at the end of the runway. That's
called the threshold. And that's where you're going to want to put down your
gear. The reason for that is realistically is that only certain sections of the
runway are reinforced enough to absorb the shock of a landing. And also the
secondary thing is that if you land ahead of the thresholds, there's no real
guarantee that you'll roll to a stop in time. Okay, I'm now going to turn left
visually onto the runway. I'm going to line myself up. I'm going to put my gear
down on my 275 knots so it's nice and safe. Now we can see here... Now like I
said, when you touch down you want to be three degrees nose down, okay? That's
ideal for the gear. And we have a visual guide when we bring our gear down.
Right here between the five degrees nose down and the artificial horizon this
new HUD symbology occurs. It's these dashed lines, okay? And that's indicating
three degrees nose down. So now I have a visual guide so I don't have to be
looking down here to see if I'm three degrees nose down. I can just look at my
HUD and all is good. We're about seven miles out, this is called final, okay?
Final approach. Let's try to visually line up with the runway. About 2000 plus
seven right now. 240 knots, we're a little bit too fast to touch down but that's
fine because we still have some room. Now we see the threshold more closely.
We'll see if we can get a little bit of a better view of the runway. Now we see
the threshold more closely. I want that meatball on the threshold but I also
want to be three degrees nose down. If I'm five degrees nose down then my gear
is going to snap. You know these skills translate to ILS too because like I said
before ILS is just to get you to a terminal state of landing and then you're
going to terminate the landing yourself. Now right now we can see the three
degree mark is still too high up so I'm going to nose down a bit to lose some
altitude and then we're going to see it's going to come down. I also need to
lose a little bit of airspeed. I'm a little too fast. Like I said, I want to
touch down to 180 to 190 knots. We're about 3000 feet away now. I'm going to
nose up a little bit and get that flight path marker on the three degrees nose
down line. Anywhere on these white boxes is fine. Hold it now and hold it. And
we're down. Now you hold down K to apply brakes. Don't do it if you came in
above 200. Do not use your brakes. Let it roll out first. But if you came in
below 200 like I did, go ahead and apply brakes now. Just hold down K. If you
start veering off course you can use your rudder to hold it down. You can also
use your rudder to hold it down. You can also use your rudder to hold it down.
You can also use your rudder to hold it down. Now you can apply brakes. Now just
hold down K. If you start veering off course you can use your rudder to make
corrections. Roll through a stop and when your flight path correction, when your
flight speed indicator on the HUD is below, when it's zero, then you can apply
nose wheel steering by pressing shift forward slash. Now I can basically drive
this thing like a car by using the rudder. Rudder inputs with nose wheel
steering off, but it's not as sensitive. And you really have to put a lot of
rudder in. So with the nose wheel steering enabled I can now make wide turns. I
can basically drive this thing as if you would your Toyota. I can go visit the
airport here. You know, go kick my cockpit up and act like I'm a big dick on
base. And do other fun things. So that's my ILS landing tutorial. I know I
abbreviated quite a bit. And the reason for that is that I know a lot of people
are not interested in, you know, instrument flight rules. For instance, I mean,
I didn't go over how you can use the HSI and your instruments here to do a
landing using ILS. I know many of you are not interested in that, but it is
something that you should learn if you really want to master the game. And I
highly recommend reading the manual. There's a great example in there of some
imagery showing you like an example landing of ILS and it walks through how the
HUD transitions from phase to phase. I highly recommend checking out the BMS
manual. And I'm also going to provide a link in the description for the for the
navigation website that I mentioned before. So please check that out. Please
leave comments if you have any feedback. Thank you. Hi. Hi, welcome to another
Falcon 4 BMS tutorial. In this video, we're going to be going over proper
configuration of controls, what controls are really important, what controls you
need to know offhand. We're also going to be going over how to set up a data
cartridge. And the data cartridge is pretty much software that is loaded when
you start up the game. And if you don't have a data cartridge set up, then every
time you fly, you're going to have blank NFDs and you're going to have to
manually set up all your NFDs. Bullseye, ECM programs and all that. So we're
going to fix that in this video. So let's get started. So the first thing we're
going to do is we're going to go to set up on the top right in the main menu.
I'm just going to run through some basic settings here that you should probably
have. First things first is, is I would set everything to realistic. Of course,
you don't have to do that. It's pretty much up to your own discretion. But if
you want to get the most out of the game, fly it realistically. Another major
thing that most people don't do is they don't turn on smart scaling. It's this
box right here. You need to turn on smart scaling. It's an absolute necessity.
Smart scaling will pretty much make vehicles appear larger than they would. It
makes them appear larger, but it's not cheating really. It just sort of
simulates the resolution of the human eye and what the human eye would be able
to see in reality. So I highly recommend putting smart scaling on. Otherwise,
you're going to have a really hard time seeing objects on the grounds. Another
thing is, is radio calls use bullseye. That is, what that is referring to is
when the AWACS or another aircraft gives a radio call, they will often by
default, they'll give a bearing and a range of the contact from you. But
realistically, that's never done. And you would use bullseye in almost all
circumstances. So I'd check that on if you're comfortable using bullseye. But
you should eventually turn it on even if you don't have it on now. Because every
time someone hears a radio message, it's relative to them. So for instance, if
you call an AWACS picture, the AWACS is going to tell you something. You're
going to hear them say something differently to you than your wingman who's 10
miles behind you would hear if you don't use bullseye. Because your wingman or
the other people that hear it, they'll hear the bearing to whatever contact is
being declared relative to their position. So it's sort of unrealistic. And
bullseye is much better because it's the same for everyone. Everyone's on the
same page. And it is a little trickier to use if you don't know what a bullseye
is in aviation. But in the long run, you should definitely turn that on. And the
other stuff here is pretty much for your own discretion. So now what we're going
to do is we're going to go to controllers. And this screen looks really
intimidating, but it's fairly simple. You just click on the function that you
want to change, and then you press a key. So I'm just going to run through the
essentials that I have found on my joystick. You're pretty much going to want to
bind these, or at least know the keys to them. So obviously the first thing I
have, and all you have to do to really detect stuff on your joystick is just
press the buttons. And they should be detected automatically. And don't be
confused by the joystick buttons interface here. It only shows eight buttons,
but it will fully detect all of them if your computer detects them. Let's go
ahead and start just going through the buttons that you need. So number one is
going to be your fire button for the gun. And we can see it's down here in
weapon. It's right there. By default it's forward slash. You've got to have your
fire gun button. Another thing that you're going to want to have is a pickle
button. And that's space bar by default. You're going to want to have pickle.
It's also known as weapon pickle. The next thing you're going to want, and by
the way, if you don't know what pickle is, that is basically the consent to
release button. So whenever you fire a bomb, whenever you fire a missile, you're
going to need to consent to release by either pressing pickle or holding down
pickle. The next button that you're going to want to bind is TMS up. So this is
the HOTAS TMS up. And what TMS up does is it will lock onto targets and it also
makes whatever saw you have active. It will basically activate whatever sensor
you have active. So for instance, if you're using a targeting pod and the target
pod is the sensor of entrance, if you press TMS up, it will put it into area
mode. If you're on the FCR and you slew over to a radar contact and press TMS
up, it will lock onto them. So the most important thing about TMS up is that it
locks onto stuff. So make sure you have that bound. And also important is TMS
down. HOTAS TMS down. And that does the opposite of TMS up. It just unlocks from
whatever you have activated or selected. Another really cool button, these
aren't essentials, but I would definitely put them on your stick if you have
more than 11 or 12 buttons, is TMS left and TMS right. And what these buttons do
is that they'll switch to nearby air contact within three miles of the original
air contact that you have selected. So if you lock onto a bandit and he's flying
in a group, let's say he's in a four ship group and they're all within three
miles, you don't have to slew around your radar and then lock onto them
individually. If you wanted to, you could just press TMS right and TMS left.
It'll switch between them. They're really useful and they're not necessary, but
I would highly recommend having them. And all the HOTAS buttons are grouped
under HOTAS. And this is all alphabetical, so just scroll down to, I guess
partially alphabetical, or maybe not. Anyway, just scroll down to where it says
HOTAS. It's a big section right here. And then HOTAS is like DMS, CMS, and TMS.
Okay, so the next button that we're going to bind is we're going to bind radar
antenna tilt down and radar antenna tilt up. And what these buttons do is that
it will change the altitude in which your radar is scanning. So you're going to
be using this constantly. You'll be using this on a constant basis. You know,
your radar has a gimbal in it. It's basically a beam that comes up from the
front of your aircraft. And you have to constantly be changing the parameters of
that beam in order to illuminate targets. The next thing you're going to want to
bind is HOTAS DMS down. And what DMS down will do is it will change sensor of
interest. So if you want to, you can only manipulate one sensor at a time, okay?
If you want to change from one sensor to another, you have to press, you have to
hold down DMS down. So let's say you have your ground-based radar and you want
to engage, you want to use your targeting pod to guide a bomb in with laser
guidance. You have to switch to the targeting pod from the FCR using DMS down.
You also use it on things like the HALRM. And it also has a bunch of other
functions that are rare, but you'll still use them. For instance, if you want to
just disable the HMCS system, which is a helmet-mounted HUD, all you have to do
is hold down DMS down for a second or so and then it will just disappear. So it
does a bunch of miscellaneous features that are really useful. Okay, another
button that I have on my stick is wheel brakes. And the default key for that is
K. You can put it on your stick or you can put it on your joystick or you can
put it on your keyboard, but I would highly recommend having it on your stick.
And the reason for that is when you're landing, you don't want to reach over
your joystick in order to hold down the brakes button. You want to be able to do
that hands-free. And the way you're going to do that is with, or not hands-free,
I mean, you're going to want to do that with hands on the throttle and stick. In
other words, HOTAS. And the only way you're going to do that is if it's on your
stick and nearby to where you're manipulating the pitch and roll the aircraft.
Another button I have is cockpit drop chaff. There's multiple, there's multiple,
like there's drop flare, drop chaff flare, you know, drop chaff. There's a bunch
of different ones, you know, control options. None of that stuff matters. So
like, here we go. They're all right here. That doesn't matter because as soon as
you press the button, no matter what it is, it's going to run whatever ECM
program you have saved in your data cartridge. So no matter what, if it's drop
chaff or drop, you know, flare, whatever button you select doesn't matter. Just
select one of them and put it on your stick. And finally, I have another button
on my joystick, which I have no function assigned to. And I use that to actually
transmit on team speak. So if you're not going to be playing multiplayer, you
don't need to do that, obviously. But since I only I pretty much exclusively
only play multiplayer, I have a button on my stick to do that. Some other
buttons that you're going to need to know, although you're not going to need
them on your stick, is G and that's for landing gear, raising and lowering the
landing gear. Another one is enter, which is cycle air to air hard points that
will basically cycle between your air to air weapons and backspace, which is
cycle air to ground hard points. And that will cycle between air to ground
weapons. There's some other buttons that you might need to know, but those are
like the main ones. I'm going to post up an image that I'm going to put into
this video, just going to list all the buttons. I'm also going to put them in
the video description. This way you guys have a reference of all the ones that
you should know or at least have bounds. That's basically it. I mean, there's
not that many buttons on the F16. It's very easy to fly. And unlike, you know,
something like the A10, which has a bunch of different hats and all sorts of
crap, you don't really need to do that on the F16. Now, another key concept here
is that you need to set an afterburner threshold for your throttle. So right now
I'm moving my throttle. You can see it moving right here. Now, the afterburner
threshold is the point on your throttle at which if you go over it, it will roll
into your afterburner and start opening the nozzle position. So what I like to
do is I like to put my nozzle, I like to put my afterburner threshold about 75%
up on my throttle. And if I go beyond that, then I go into afterburner. So all
you got to do is you just move this slider using a throttle to wherever you want
the, wherever you want the afterburner to start. And then you just click set AB.
Okay. And then it's good to go. Now, another thing that you need to do before
you exit the screen is, and this is a mistake that a lot of newbies make, and
then they come back here and they're like, why didn't my settings save? You need
to click save. Okay. And it doesn't matter what you name it, just click save.
Okay. And then click apply. If you don't do that, your settings aren't going to
save and you're going to be very unhappy when you're going to have to remap
everything. Now, another thing is we're going to go into the advanced settings
here. Now, a lot of people that have a joystick with multiple hats or multiple
throttles, they often complain that the game is not detecting their buttons or
not detecting their throttles. And that's because you need to come into here and
you need to select whatever portion of the, whatever aspect of the game you want
those axes to do. And you need to select them from this drop down menu. Okay.
From these various drop down menus. I don't have to deal with this because I
have a Logitech Extreme 3D Pro. It's pretty cheap and basic stick. I only have
one hat and one throttle. But I know a lot of you guys are rolling with X52s and
Thrustmaster Cougars and Warthogs and shit like that. That's fine. Just come in
here and you will be able to assign whatever axes are on your stick. It's not
like the game doesn't support them. They do. Okay. Now, another thing that I'm
going to bring up here is a lot of people that have track IR, they always ask
me, how do you have six degrees of freedom? How do you zoom in your head and
things like that on the videos? Okay. All you need to do is make sure that these
are checked. Okay. You need to enable the track IR vector and the vector Z axis
mode is field of view control. If you have that set, then you're good to go and
you'll have full six degrees of freedom. That's pretty much all I want to go
over in this screen. I mean, you can experiment with this stuff, but those are
the two main things that I often hear come up is people are just, you know,
they're, why isn't my track IR working like yours is? And why aren't my axes, my
hats and my, you know, throttles not working? That's because you need to go to
the advanced options screen. It's all pretty self-explanatory. I'm not going to
go over it. What I will go over though is the, let's see here. Well, that's
pretty much it actually. Okay. And what I found is that unless I, like, for
instance, this is, if you guys wanted to set cursor X and cursor Y or the range
knob, any of this stuff on your stick, if you just clicked on here and change it
from keyboard, it would have whatever axis is on your stick. So that's pretty
self-explanatory. And then just make sure you save again, make sure you apply
the settings. So that's the basics of the controls. Now we're going to go to the
data cartridge. Next thing we're going to go over is the data cartridge. Okay.
So in order to access the data cartridge controls, you have to either be in a
tactical engagement or you have to be in the campaign. So we're going to go, why
not tactical engagement? I'll load the ILS video or ILS scenario that I used for
the previous tutorial. Okay. So how do you access your data cartridge? It's this
button down here. It's down here in the bottom right. It's this gray little box
that's vomiting out another box. Click on that. And now we have the data
cartridge screen. So what does the data cartridge do? Okay. Number one is that
it will save target steer points. So if you designate steer points on the 2D
screen, on the briefing screen, then they will save your data cartridge. And
that's how your F16 is able to recall them later. Okay. What it also does is it
sets, it's actually a program for your electronic warfare suite. And if you
don't have programs enabled in your data cartridge, then when you press the
chaff flare button, nothing will happen. Literally. So it's pretty much a death
sentence not to fly with a data cartridge. And it's pretty much impossible to
fly. Another thing it does is that it sets the default loadout and physical
settings of your aircraft. So it sets what MFDs you're going to have selected,
the various MFDs that appear for master modes, and stuff like that. By default,
you know, you're just going to get blank MFDs. So you're going to set your
default MFD loadouts in this screen. And the last thing it does is that it sets
the default comm frequencies that your aircraft is going to be tuned to. And
most importantly is that it tunes and saves the default frequencies for the
tower. So if you get in game and you can't talk to the tower, that's because you
didn't set up your data cartridge. Okay. So we're just going to go through this
one by one. Now, as far as the targets area of the data cartridge is concerned,
this, you can't really set this up. The way that it's, the way that target steer
points are added is by reconning something and selecting, you know, selecting a
component. And then designating it as a target steer point. And then it's
automatically saved to your data cartridge. So I just quickly reconned the
random air base. I selected a strip of the runway as target steer one. And then
I also did it for target steer 10. Now, when you designate a steer, a target
steer, it overrides whatever is in your flight plan. So if you have, you know,
10 steer points in your flight plan, you're not going to want to use any steer
points below 11 for target steers. And I have another more in-depth video. It's
actually in the harm tutorial that tells you guys like in depth how to use
target steer points. So if you want to know more about that, just go there. But
that's the bottom line for target steers. Now, the EWS screen of the data
cartridge, this is setting up your programs. Okay. So you have four programs
that you can access easily, at least. There's actually six, but we're not going
to talk about the five and six because it's a pain in the ass to activate them.
So you have four programs that you're going to be using on a regular basis. Now,
this box here selects the program that you have selected. And let me just go
over and just define what a program is. So a program is basically a pre-planned,
pre-programmed series of ECM actions that happen when you press the chaff pickle
button. So one program might have five flares and two chaff come out. Another
program might have 10 flares and five chaff come out. One might have one flare
and that's it. It's all customizable and you need to set this before you fly.
Now, this box right here, as I said, that selects the program. And this box
here, this selects the type of countermeasure that you're using in the program.
So in my program one, I only have it releasing chaff. So that's why if we go to,
I have chaff selected right now, we can see burst quantity is three and sequence
quantity is three. Now, if I go to flare, everything is zero. And that's because
I have no flares on program one. What I typically have in my programs, I have
program one, which is just against long range missiles and SAMs. And I use chaff
for that. I have program two, which is for only low altitude attacks and it only
shoots out flares and a little bit of chaff. Then I have program three, which is
like an all purpose program that I use when I'm flying around. And it's
basically a reaction to ambush program. It shoots out chaff and flare in about
equal quantities. And program four is what I like to call the attack program.
And program four, you could just press once on the ingress to a target and it
basically lasts for like a minute and a half. So it lets you just press your
chaff and flare button once and then just roll in. Not have to worry about your
countermeasures and it will just slowly release flare and chaff the entire time.
Now, that being said, let's go over how to actually make some programs. Now,
there's two concepts here. There's sequence and burst. A sequence contains a
number of bursts.
 Okay? And, a burst is simply a release of either chaff or flare. So let's say
you have one sequence with a burst quantity of three. That means that you're
gonna, when you press your chaff and flare button, it's going to release three
of whatever it is. If you had two sequences and you had three burst quantity,
then it's gonna release two sequences of three. So six in total. And so on. And
that's the basic concept beyond sequence and burst. Now there's also an interval
in between both sequence and burst. So let's say we had two sequences with a
sequence interval of two. That means that when I press the pickle button, it's
gonna go on the first sequence, then it's gonna wait two seconds, then it's
gonna do the second sequence. So in this example, I have a sequence quantity of
three and I have a sequence interval of two. Which means as soon as I press that
button, it's gonna do the first sequence, then it's gonna wait two seconds, it's
gonna do the second sequence, then it's gonna wait another two seconds and do
the third sequence. Okay? There's also another concept and that's burst
interval. And that is the spacing between individual releases of chaff or flare.
So burst quantity three and burst interval 0.75. That means when a sequence
goes, it's gonna fire a chaff, it's gonna wait 0.75 seconds, it's gonna fire
another chaff, then it's gonna wait another 0.75 seconds, then it's gonna fire
the third chaff. So the basic concept here is sequence is how many times the
program will run, so to speak. The burst quantity is how much chaff or flare are
gonna be released every time it runs. Okay? And we can see, I'm just gonna
select my second program here. So in the second program, I have, this is my low
altitude attack program, this is when I'm doing ground attack. I have a sequence
quantity of three and a burst quantity of one. So every time it's gonna release,
it's gonna release one chaff. And it's gonna do so every three seconds, because
I have a sequence interval of three. So it's gonna release one chaff, it's gonna
wait three seconds, it's gonna release another chaff, it's gonna wait three
seconds, it's gonna release another chaff. Okay? And we can also see, I have a
lot more flares though, I have two sequences that are spaced only a second
apart, and they release four flares. So eight flares in total every time I
pickle. So if I am going in on a target, I want to bomb, I'm gonna drop some
bombs on it, I press when I'm just about to go into the front envelope, I press
the countermeasure button, I got four flares out immediately, and then one
second later another flares pop. And each time the flares are going, they're
separated by half of a second. As we can see here, the burst interval is .5. So
every time, you know, the sequence comes up, it does one, two, three, four,
second, pause, and then one, two, three, four. Now, hopefully you guys
understand that. Now, there's some other features on this tab that are like
basic features that affect all your electronic warfare stuff, okay? Now if you
don't have a bingo in a, alright, so what the bingo will do is, it will tell
you, it will say low, you know, when you're actually going through your
countermeasures, the bitching betty, you know, your computer will say low. And
that indicates to you that your chaff or flare supply is getting low, okay? And
the number of chaff or flare that it starts to warn you at is these numbers
here, where it says chaff bingo and flare bingo, okay? So you can set how many,
what the number is of, you know, when you want the computer to alert you, and it
doesn't even have to alert you, you can just turn off the bingo if you want.
These other two boxes, make sure you have them enabled, and this just basically
ensures that bitching betty will properly, will properly communicate to you when
you're popping chaff and flare. And leave recjam off, that will, I believe that
turns on your jammer when you press a program, which is a horrible, a horrible
idea. So that's the EWS panel. Now the next thing we're going to go over is
modes, okay? And this is the default layouts of your MFDs, okay? And what it has
is all the different master modes here, and every different master mode can have
a different MFD setup. Now what I use is I use the same MFD setup regardless of
what master mode I'm on. So in modes, I have, I have Airdrogram master mode
selected, this is the first box here that selects the mode, and I have MFD 1 and
2, okay? Now you can select 4 MFDs, but the F-16 only has 2 MFDs, so 1 and 2 are
the only ones that you're going to be running into on the F-16. The other 2 MFDs
are probably for other aircraft that use more than 2 MFDs that they're slowly
putting into BMS. As of now, don't even worry about that, just focus on MFD 1
and 2, okay? Now what I have is I have a realistic setup for my MFDs, you don't
have to do this, but what I like to have is, so if I'm in Airdrogram master mode
on my first MFD, which is the left one, I like to have the FCR, okay? I like to
have the FCR and then the data cartridge and then the test screens, all, you
know, like this is what's going to show up at the bottom of your MFD, you know,
like the different categories at the bottom of your MFD, this is what's going to
show up by default. And then what page of your MFD is going to be selected by
default is determined by this box here, this fourth box where it says current,
okay? So you can select either primary, secondary, or tertiary, I have it set to
primary, so when I switch into Airdrogram master mode, the default page that's
going to be selected on my MFD is going to be the FCR, because I have the
current, I have primary selected for current and under primary I have FCR. Now
if I change this to my weapon page or whatever, then if I switch into Airdrogram
master mode, it's going to be, it's going to have the weapon page selected by
default, okay? And there's a whole bunch of different options here, you can do
whatever you want. Now, and also for the second MFD, I have, you know, the
weapon page is the first thing, the HSD is the second thing, and then the SMS is
the third thing. And by default I have the SMS page selected, so when I switch
into Airdrogram master mode, you know, I already showed you what's on the left
MFD, but what's on the right MFD is weapon, HSD, and SMS, and it has the SMS,
the storage management, selected by default. It's like, you can see here where
it says current, it's tertiary, and under tertiary we have the SMS, okay? And I
have the exact same thing for Airdrogram master mode. Now you can change this,
you know, at your will, you don't have to do this, and all, for me I like to fly
realistically, I pretty much have the same stuff for every mode. Another really
useful feature of this page is display bullseye, and you're definitely going to
want to check that, and if you have that checked, then on your MFDs it's going
to, it's going to, well it's going to put it in two places, okay? By checking
this box, it's the same thing as going list 080 on your ICP, it's going to
select your current bullseye in the bottom left of your HUD, and it's also going
to select, it's also going to include your bullseye at the bottom left of your
MFDs. So I always have that on, it's always, you know, if someone asks you for
your bullseye, you can quickly just look at the bottom left of your HUD or at
your MFDs, and read off your bullseye. It's really crucial for situational
awareness. Finally, we have the comms. We have the comms section of the data
cartridge, okay? And what this does is it selects default frequencies and
defaults currently selected frequencies for your radio system. So in the F-16
you have two bands, you have the uniform band and you have the victor band,
okay? So you select the band here. The uniform is like a, you know, really long
range radio, it's the most powerful radio, and you usually have the tower comms
on there, or you have the guard channel on there, or talking to like a FAC or
whatever, you use the uniform band, okay? And pretty much what, okay, so this
box selects the bands, and this area selects what radio channel you're going to
have selected. So if we slew along here, we can, at any point we can just, we
can select default, and then it will make this channel, this channel preset the
default channel that you're going to start your game with. So if I have preset
four and I click default, then when I start the game I'm going to be on uniform
four, I'm going to be on channel four when I start the game. Now what I would
recommend setting your default to on the uniform is I'd select channel 15, and
the reason why we're doing that is because channel one to fourteen are presets
that already exist within BMS, like channel six is the package comms, channel
fourteen is the guard channel, channel one is AWACS, you know, stuff like that.
So there's a bunch of preset channels that already exist, so you're going to
want to go to the first unclaimed preset, which is channel 15, you're going to
want to make that default and then click set tower, and then it's going to set
whatever airbase you're currently operating out of, it's going to display that
name here, and then it's going to tune you to that frequency on channel 15, so
when you get in game you'll be on comms in the tower. And what I like to have
for the Victor band is I like to have the package comms by default, so I have
channel six, which is package comms, I have that by default. And I'm going to be
attaching an image to this video that will show you all the default radio
channels and what they are for your own reference, I'm also going to be putting
that into the video description. But the bottom line is, the thing that you need
to realize is that channels one through fourteen are radio channels that are
preset, they already are being used by all the aircraft in the theater, and
they're sort of standard, so you don't want to overwrite them, you want to,
that's why, for instance, I would never select preset six, and I would never
make this the tower, because that's going to overwrite the package comms, and I
won't have them, so frequency 133.150 is the package, that's like everyone, all
the flights that are in the package are on that net, okay? If I were to make
this package comm, then I would no longer be able to switch to my package comms,
unless I wrote down this frequency and set it to another channel. Hopefully that
makes sense. So when you're done messing around with your data cartridge, you
just click save, and it will say saved okay. Now every time you fly, this thing
will load automatically, and you'll be good to go, you won't have to deal with
towers that you can't hear, you won't have to deal with blank MFDs, you won't
have to deal with not having ECM programs. Now one thing you do need to know is
that the data cartridge is not persistent in the following ways, okay? It does
not save target steer points, so if I set up target steer points right now,
which I did, and then I back out and I come back in, they're not going to be set
anymore. Or actually, it will remain persistent as long as the game is on, but
if you close the game, and you come back in, they'll be gone. So unlike the
other parts of your data cartridge, which are persistent, and they'll be there
forever until you change them, okay? So make sure that if you set target steer
points and your game crashes or whatever, or you have to exit out, make sure you
come back and reset them before you fly, otherwise you'll be in First of Rise.
Another thing that it doesn't save is it doesn't save pre-planned threat steer
points, so it won't save this SA-10 circle, for instance. It's not going to save
that if your game resets, so you'll have to re-add that when you get in. And it
also does not save steer point lines, so if you want to make a battle box or
whatever engagement area, using the steer point lines, it's not going to save
this. So make sure you reset that when you get back in game. So that's the
basics of the data cartridge and the controls. If you have any comments, please
provide them in the comments area below, and let me know any feedback or any
ideas that you have. Thank you. Oh, one thing I did forget to mention is that I
am going to be including my data cartridge for download. So if you're too lazy
to set up a data cartridge, or if you don't want to go through the hassle, you
can download my data cartridge and then use it as your own. So I'm going to be
putting a link to download that in the video description, as well as
instructions on how to install it. So enjoy. Hi, welcome to another Falcon 4 BMS
tutorial. In this video, we're going to be going over the AGM-65 Maverick. The
Maverick is an air-to-ground missile that is guided either by electrical optical
guidance or by thermal imaging that is typically used at standoff ranges to
engage targets which represent a threat to the aircraft. It's also used against
moving targets because unlike dumb bombs which become ballistic when you release
them and they're essentially free-falling, the Maverick is a missile which has
powered guidance and that allows it to maneuver onto the target and hit moving
targets. So some typical examples of what you use a Maverick for is against
something like a ZSU-23 or a Shilka, a SAM radar, a AAA radar, moving armored
columns you would typically use a Maverick for because you're not going to be
able to get close enough to use bombs or at least not use them effectively. When
you have an armored column rolling around, you have things like man-pads, mobile
AAA and SAM systems within the columns themselves. It makes it very dangerous to
attack those sort of targets with bombs so you'd use something like a Maverick.
Now that being said, there's three types of Mavericks that you're typically
going to run into in the campaign and that is the AGM-65 Bravo and the Bravo is
a Maverick that uses electrical optical guidance and a TV sensor in order to
acquire and to lock onto targets. And it's an older missile that's not really
used often but it's still common enough that you need to know about it and know
the difference between optical guidance and thermal guidance. You then have the
AGM-65 Delta and the big thing about the Delta is that, and you can see the
Delta here on my wing, it's that green guy right there, the big thing about the
Delta is that it actually has thermal imaging and that allows you to very easily
acquire targets against terrain and in inclement weather and in low light
conditions. The Bravo does not have that ability because it's a TV sensor so if
it's raining out it's going to be useless, if it's really dark out it's going to
be useless. This is not very useful in a wide variety of conditions. Meanwhile
the Delta is thermal so it's a lot more useful. That being said, there's also a
heavier version of the Delta which has a penetrating warhead that's typically
used against bunkers, ships, structures, things like that. That is the AGM-65
Golf and the Golf is a much heavier missile. You can only have one per pylon and
I've used them in the campaign most often to kill enemy ships, especially
Jangway cruisers. You just use two Golfs and it will take care of them right
quick. Now that you understand the basic theory behind the Maverick we're going
to be going over how to actually employ and use the Maverick. So the Maverick
requires power from the aircraft. It needs to be powered on manually. It's not
powered on automatically when you get in. There's a setting on the SMS page that
you need to turn on in order to use the Maverick. That being said, let's go
ahead and switch into master air to ground mode and switch to the SMS page.
You're going to note something here that is unique to Mavericks and something
that you probably haven't seen when you've been dealing with bombs and that is
power on off. This button here. You're going to press that on and now the
Maverick is powering up. It takes about two minutes for them to warm up. They
won't be immediate. When it's fully powered on you'll be able to receive a
signal from the sensor head on the Maverick and visually acquire targets. The
way you do that is from the weapon page. We're going to go ahead and click on
the weapon page and go into that. First thing you're going to notice is that it
says not timed out. When that text is gone, when the text not timed out is gone
then the Maverick is good to go. Right now we have a blank screen while it's
warming up. When it does warm up the next thing we can do is we can uncage the
seeker head on the Maverick and then we can visually see what we're targeting.
Now we're going to get back to that in a second. Before we go over the weapon
page and how to use that, let's just go over how you would use a Maverick. How
would you personally use a Maverick? There's four main ways that you would.
Number one is you'd be referencing a pre-planned steer point and you would just
select the steer point and then your Maverick would automatically slave to that.
The second way would be in GMT mode, Ground Moving Target Radar mode, and put
into snowplow mode. That's typically used if you're hunting for targets in a
general kill box. The first method is used if you know where the target is, you
see it in the briefing and you plan out for that. Now if you're in GMT mode you
can just put it into snowplow mode and then fly around and look for movers. The
third method is a visual mode. We're going to go over that in a moment, but what
that allows you to do is you'll have a TD box on your HUD and you just move this
TD box onto the target and then that is slave to the seeker head. So wherever
you point this TD box the seeker head will follow. Lastly, there's another mode
which is partially visual and that's Boresight mode. In Boresight mode the
sensor is constantly showing you what is coming into the Boresight of the
missile. You can move the Boresight gimbals by pressing the arrow keys on your
keyboard or your radar sluice keys. The Boresight angle will always remain
relative to where your aircraft is heading. So right now if I unpause this and I
start flying around we can see that the Boresight does not move. In other words,
I'm redirecting the missile manually to look where I want and that it remains
relative to the pitch and roll of the aircraft, which is not like the visual
mode which remains wherever you put it. If I put it right there it's not going
to remain relative. It's just going to float around. So we're not going to be
using that at this moment. For now we're going to wait. Okay, well look, the
text is now gone. So now we're going to go over how you would use this thing to
actually engage something. And then after that we'll go over how to specifically
use it in each mode that I just talked about a moment ago. So for that you're
going to start off on pre-mode. So there's, on your SMS page and on the weapon
page there are three different modes. Pre refers to using the FCR. Pre refers to
using the FCR. Visual is the mode that I talked about before, the TD box on the
HUD. And Bore will allow you to use the FCR but it's mostly a visual mode and
then you slew it around on your HUD. Okay? Now we're going to start with pre and
we're going to be talking about how to attack pre-plant steer points and how to
attack moving targets. The basic concept here is that just imagine, you know,
just pretend that we're in CCIP, I mean CCRP. Imagine we're attacking something
in CCRP, okay? What would you do to attack something in CCRP? You slew over it
and then you lock it up, right? Well, you do the same thing with a Maverick. You
find it on your FCR, whatever the contact is, doesn't matter if it's moving or
stationary, you find it and then you lock it up. Now the difference is here is
that rather than just flying to the fall line and pickle off of that, you're
going to be using the seeker head on the Maverick to visually acquire and lock
onto it visually. Now that being said, in order to see what the seeker head is,
you know, in order to activate the seeker head, you have to uncage it just like
you would a Sidewinder. You have to press U to uncage it. Once you do that, this
screen will no longer be black. It will reveal whatever the seeker head is
seeing on the missile. So I'm going to go ahead and, so I've locked up a target,
random target, I have no idea what it is on the FCR. I'm now going to uncage the
seeker head on the Maverick by pressing U. And now we can visually see what
we're engaging. And the basic premise here is that you slew onto the target that
you want to kill and you press TMS up, and then when this indexer, when this
carrot is within the indexer, then you pickle and you fire. And also you can
note that the indexer is on the right side of the HUD as well. So it's on the
weapon page and it's on the HUD. So that's like the absolute minimal
understanding of how you would use a Maverick, okay? You just find something on
the FCR, lock it up, and then when you lock it up, it will, and you go to your
weapon page, it will automatically make the weapon page a center of interest.
And then you just slew over it visually and you press TMS up and then you fly
into it, you wait for the indexer, for the carrot to be in the indexer, and then
you fire. Now that's like the bare minimum of how you would use this thing. So
now what we're going to do is we're going to go over those various attack modes
that I went over before, those four different attack profiles. But before we do
that, we need to go over the basics of what is on this weapon page. I mean it
might be confusing to you, so we're just going to go over what you're seeing
here on the weapon page. Now this button here is not implemented. This button
here where it says PRE, this is the exact same thing that's on the SMS page. So
if you click this, it just cycles through the modes of the Maverick. PRE, VIS,
and BORE. I'm just going to cycle back to the buildings that we had targeted so
we can talk about that. This button up here where it says FOV, this is for, this
selects the field of view. So there's two snap zooms on the Mavericks. It
doesn't have a scalable zoom like on the TGP, but it has two snap zooms. It has
a zoomed out area view and then a zoomed in expanded view. And the way you would
access that is by clicking that. So we're in the expanded view now, we can see
some slightly more details and now we're in the field of view mode. This button
here isn't implemented. We've already gone over this guy here, the indexer. It
will tell you what weapon you have selected above the indexer. And down here in
the bottom, 3467, those are the weapon stations that I have Mavericks on. And if
you switch between the various Mavericks, the number that's highlighted would
change. There's also in the center here we have a crosshair, this is showing the
boresight of the Maverick that you're moving around. And these little brackets
surrounding the boresight or the crosshair is just telling you if you're zoomed
out or zoomed in. So if you zoom in those will go away. And this guy here, this
flashing cross, that's actually telling you that we're off the gimbals for the
Maverick and this would not be a good shot even if we were in range, the missile
would miss. So this guy has to not be flashing in order to make a shot. If it's
flashing then you're off gimbals and you need to turn towards the target. You
basically have to be on the same plane as the target in order to engage it.
Yeah, so that's pretty much the weapon page of the Maverick. Now that being
said, let's just go over just the real, some real basics here on what's going
on. So I'm just going to go ahead and unlock this. Now what you're going to find
is that when I move around the, I'm on the FCR now, I'm slewing around on the
FCR, okay, I'm just slewing around in snowplow mode. When I slew around it's
slave to the Maverick. So the Maverick is seeing whatever I'm looking at. So
this allows you to, you know, normally if you're just using your radar you have
no idea what these dots are, they could be anything. So you can use the Maverick
to look at what you're targeting before you attack it, okay? So you just slew
over it, it's slave to the Maverick. Now there are circumstances where it won't
be slave to the Maverick. Like if I lock something up and then I switch Sensor
of Interest back to the FCR, it's going to be, it's going to be stuck on
whatever, it's going to be ground stabilized on whatever I had targeted, okay?
See how I'm moving around the radar and now it says not SOI and it's not locked
anymore? That's fine. If I want to go back to having it slave to the radar, I
just need to press DMS down, make it Sensor of Interest and then press TMS down.
And now you'll see if I switch back to the FCR, it's slaved, okay? And if you
don't know what DMS down is or Sensor of Interest or anything like that, I
recommend watching the harm video. And as another note, if you don't understand
how to use the FCR, then you should go watch my CCRP and CCIP video. Because
this video is for, you know, advanced users, I'm not explaining everything that
I'm going over because I'm assuming that you already know how to use the radar,
you already know what Sensor of Interest is. So if you don't, please go watch
the, if you don't understand Sensor of Interest, watch the harm video. And if
you don't understand how to use the FCR, check out the ground attack video. So
this is the basics of how you use the Maverick with the FCR. That being said,
let's go over how to attack a pre-planned steer point. So, the general situation
right now is that there are, there is a tank battalion rolling across this river
and it's about to attack this direction here. It's heading towards Seoul, okay?
It's rolling across the DMZ. Now, in support of that battalion is a rocket
artillery battalion. And that's where I put my pre-planned target steer points.
So we'll see here, if I, if I change steer points, okay, get out of snowplow
mode first. If I, if I change steer points, the Maverick sensor will snap to
whatever steer point I have selected, okay? So the idea here is that I've made a
pre-planned threat steer point and if you don't know what that is, that is also
check out the harm video. And I just select the steer point and then I'm going
to go ahead and fly towards it. I'm going to get into the altitude because we're
a little bit low for using Mavericks. We can see here on the pre-planned threat
steer point, target steer point 10, you can see I have some sort of vehicle
selected. It's actually a BM-21 Grad, which is a rocket artillery truck. Right
now it's at my 12 o'clock on the nose. You can see it here on the TD box. We can
vaguely make out a line of vehicles here, a column of vehicles. They're
stationary. What I'm going to do is I'm just going to keep, I'm going to go
ahead and press TMS up and I'm going to go ahead and press lock onto the
vehicle. You can now see how this cross is now solid. That means that we're on
gimbals. And because this carrot is inside the indexer, I could fire right now.
So we can't really see what it is though. I want to get you guys a little closer
so we can see it, but we're still a little bit far. We're still about 7.3 miles.
But in any case, I just locked it up. All I did was I just selected the steer
point and then pressed TMS up. And if the target was not exactly on the steer
point, then you could do this. If the target was not exactly on the steer point.
So let's say I selected the steer point and it wasn't there. I could just press
TMS up and then I could slew around. When I press TMS up on the FCR, it
automatically switches center of interest to Maverick. So if he wasn't right on
the steer point, I could slew around, find him and then lock him up. Like this
guy right here, he's not the target, but let's say he was a target. Let's say
this guy is the actual target, but let's say he wasn't. Let's say he was this
guy. I could just select the steer point, TMS up and then slew over to the
target and then lock him up. Okay. That being said, we're going to go ahead and
employ this Maverick. So we're going to unpause it. Press Pickle and then the
Maverick goes out. Now what I'm going to do is, so normally what you do is you'd
have a bunch of pre-planned target steer points and you'd be rapidly cycling
through the steer points and engaging. So I'm going to go ahead and switch back
to the FCR and select Steer Point 11. Now this is another grad. It's the one
right next to it. I'm going to press TMS up again and slew around. What you want
to do is after you press TMS up, you want to make sure that it's snapped to the
target. So watch, I'll do that one more time. Okay. So I have Steer Point 11
selected. I'm going to press TMS up. Okay. Now what you're going to find is that
if you can slew around using your arrow keys, then it's not locked. You have to
press TMS up again. Now it's snapped. See how I'm moving my arrow keys around?
It snapped on. So that means that it's locked on. And again, we have a good
attack profile because the carrot's inside. I'm going to go ahead and fire. And
you're going to roll off. You're going to roll off to the two directions that's
away from the target. You should see some splashes momentarily. Boom and boom.
Two kills. Now, as I said before, we'd want to use the visual mode on the
Maverick if we can see the targets. Okay. And they're sort of stationary and we
can visually find them. So right now at my 10 o'clock low, I can see that column
that I wanted to engage. So right now we're going to go over how to use the
visual mode. Okay. So in order to do that, you're either going to go to your SMS
page or you're going to go to your weapon page. You're going to click where it
says pre, put it on the viz. Now we see a TD box on our meatball that we're
going to slew around. Okay. What I'm going to do now is I'm going to line up for
an attack run on the target. This is all visual. This is like using CCIP almost.
Okay. So I know that they're to my left. I'm going to put on flares. This way,
flare program. This way I can defend myself. I can see them right there. The
idea here is that I'm going to visually turn into them and then kill them using
visual engagement. And this is good to do if you've already attacked the vehicle
because you'll see smoke plumes and then you'll be able to much easier, much
more easily acquire them. So what I'm going to do now is I'm going to go flight
idle, flight idle, turn into them. Okay. Now I can't do this while talking.
Otherwise I will die. But pretty much what I'm going to do now is I can see this
column of vehicles. Okay. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to move the TD
box from where my meatball is. I'm going to slew it over to a target that I want
to kill visually and then press TMS up. And then you're going to see the TD box
will go into the circle and that means that it's tracking. That's pretty much
the same thing as doing TMS up with a pre-planned steer point. Okay. That means
that it's tracking. So then what I'm going to do is I'm going to slew it over
the target visually again and then I'm going to press TMS up. Okay. And then I'm
going to move the TD box over to the target. Okay. And then we'll see. Now I
don't need to look at the weapon page. If I wanted to I could see that I'm on
Borsight. I can see the target. And it's good to go. So what I could do now is I
could just pickle and it would hit the target. And what you'd want to do as well
is you want to roll off either left or right when you're doing something like
this because otherwise you're going to get hit by enemy fire. So at any point
you want to re-center the TD box you just press TMS down and then it will snap
the TD box right back to where the meatball is. So we're just going to do one
more attack using visual mode just to show you guys how that works once again.
Right now I'm about four miles away from the target. Okay. So I'm going to go
ahead and press TMS down. See it's my 10 o'clock. This time I'm not going to
pause it. I'm just going to do the process in real time so you guys can see. I
was very quick so I'd recommend re-watching the video to see how that works. But
every time you release a missile you're going to want to uncage the next one. So
as you can see here it's black. It's a red dot. It's going to press U and uncage
it. See how that missile strayed. Boom. That actually destroyed two vehicles. I
guess that was a lucky shot. Okay now finally the last mode we're going to be
talking about is bore sight mode. Okay. And the way you're going to get to that
is by just clicking that button again switch to bore. Now we're going to see the
bore sight indicator on our HUD and we can move that onto a target and then lock
it up. And the only real difference between this and the visual mode is that in
this mode it's always going to be showing what's in the nose of your aircraft
and it will always be relative to where the bore sight indicator is. In visual
mode the target box will basically remain wherever you place it and it's not
really useful if you're doing like a dive bomb or something like that. I'd use
bore if you're you know if you want to see exactly what's on your nose of your
aircraft and you're basically doing like a dive bomb attack. So I'm going to
roll around and whenever you roll in it's always good to go flight idle because
you want to lose some speed. You don't want to be too close to this thing when
you engage it. Okay. Got the fires. Okay. Now I paused it. So what I would do
now is I'd slew. You can either do one of two things. You can slew the bore
sight indicator onto the target that you want to hit and then press TMS up. Or
you can leave the bore sight on you know your meatball and then just visually
look at the web page as you roll in. I like to look on the HUD because it's
really good situational awareness. I like to know where I am in relation to the
ground and stuff like that so I always look at my HUD. Okay. So right now we can
see there is a another BM-21 grad right there. I'm just going to slew over it
and press TMS up and once you see it like snaps to it okay. When it snaps to it
that means that it's a good shot and you'll also see it's on the indexer as
well. And you just do the same thing you just press Pickle. I'm now going to do
that in fast speed. And again if I ever see what would happen there is that the
bore sight indicator is way off my HUD. If something like that happens don't try
to slew it back. That will totally lower your situational awareness. Just press
TMS down okay. Press TMS down and it will snap right back to your HUD. And just
as a note in order to do that the weapon sensor has to be sensor of interest.
Okay. So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to roll in again. This time I'm
not going to pause it. I'm just going to roll in as I would in actual combat. So
what we've gone over so far is how to use the Maverick against pre-planned
targets. We've gone over how to use it against static targets. How to use it
visually and how to use it off bore sight. Now what we're going to go over is
how to use it on moving targets which I think is a science in itself. So just
wait one. Okay so now what we've done is we've restarted the mission. Just going
to go ahead and very quickly power on my Mavericks. And we're going to switch
into GMT mode. Switch into snowplow mode and put on 40 miles. Now we see all
moving targets within 40 miles of the nose of my aircraft. And I know that there
is a moving column of tanks to my 10 o'clock. And let's go ahead and unpause.
Actually I'll select the deltas for this attack because I'd rather have flare
when I'm going against tanks. We're now in snowplow mode. Going to go ahead and
roll to the left. We should start to see some columns of tanks on our FCR.
Bingo, got them right here. And we're going to go ahead and put on 40 miles. And
we're going to go ahead and unfortunately I've got to wait for the, yeah they're
forward in the river. I've got to wait for the sensor to heat up or the
Mavericks turn on. So I'm just going to gain some angels. Select my flare
program and loiter. And by the way folks this is why you would always power them
on before you were in the combat area. Because you don't want this to happen.
Right now I can clearly see them forward in the river. It's a nice juicy target
and it's really unfortunate that my Mavericks aren't ready. But let's just very
quickly go over that process again. So we find the movers on our GMT. You see
right here there's a nice column. Find the movers on the GMT and then lock it
up. And that's going to slay right onto your Maverick and you're good to go. You
just uncage it. You can either use the GMT or once you've visually acquired them
you can then switch to visual, whatever you want to do. What I like to do
personally is I like to find them using GMT and then I like to, once I visually
see them with my eyes I like to then switch to visual mode or boar mode. And for
me it's a lot easier to quickly pickle off all my Mavericks in one run using the
HUD mode. And it really keeps your situational awareness up. So that being said,
we're just going to wait a few moments for the Mavericks to finish powering on.
Okay. So we're going to wait a few more minutes for the Mavericks to finish
powering on. You see the vehicle is floating in the river. They're turning like
3 o'clock right now. What we'll do is, is uh, oh now it's on. Okay the Mavericks
are now powered on. I uncaged the first one. I'm going to go ahead and reference
my GMT radar. Roll over to the right. For whatever reason they're not showing up
on the radar but I can see them moving right now. So in this case I would switch
to the, let's see if I can get them at a closer range. Oh there they are, okay.
They're just a little closer. So you can see them here on the radar. Lock them
up. Then you see them on your, you know then you can see them on your uh, weapon
page. If I wanted to right now, I could just literally light up all these guys.
Which I'll do. What you do is you just, you know, fire, uncage, slow them to the
next one, fire, uncage, slow them to the next one. Which I'm going to do right
now. Those are the Deltas. I'm going to go ahead and put them on the radar. I'm
going to put them on the radar. Target's destroyed. Let's do the same thing with
the Braavos. Uncage. Roll in on Boar. Okay. So I'm going to put them on the
radar. I'm going to put them on the radar. Uncage. Roll in on Boar. Okay. So I'm
going to put them on the radar. Okay. So I'm going to put them on the radar.
Okay. So I'm going to put them on the radar. Uncage. Fire. No.
 So that's how you use the Mavericks in air-to-ground mode. In GMT mode, rather.
The idea is you just use the FCR to visually acquire them, and then you either
use the weapon page, or you use the... You know, you can use the sensor page
itself on the weapon page, or you can visually attack them with visual mode or
foresight mode. So that's the basics of the Maverick. I think I've covered
everything. I know some of this is abbreviated. Please post any comments if
you're confused about anything. There's some things that I just do instinctually
that I probably did not explain, so... Please go ahead and make comments if
there's anything that I left out. Thank you very much, and have a good one.
Okay, so the last part of this video is going to be an uncommentated attack on
an armored battalion. And it's sort of going to show you... If you put
everything together, sort of what a Maverick attack run looks like. It's sort of
a one-pass, haul-ass sort of attack. So that being said, I'm going to unpause
it, and start looking for bad guys. And by the way, this is the same scenario,
same sort of concept, armored battalion rolling south of the DMZ. Caution.
Caution. Jack Flair. Hi, welcome to another Falcon 4 BMS tutorial. In this
tutorial, we're going to be going over the non-computed pop-up attack, also
known as a pop-up attack. And it's a special air-to-ground tactic in which you
approach a target at low altitude while terrain-masking usually. And then you
pop up three to four miles away from the target, and then dive bomb it. And this
is a tactic that is used when the target is heavily defended, and you can't
approach it from high altitude. Or if the target may or may not be heavily
defended, but you don't want to be detected while you're approaching the target.
You would use a low-altitude approach followed by a pop-up attack. So in this
example, I'm just a lone Singleton F-16 that is equipped with two Mark 84s, two
tanks, and a centerline jammer. And I have an NOE route that's been planned onto
the target area. And the target is a Sun-Chan nuclear plant. And I'm going to be
attacking it from the southeast. And in this example, just in the training that
I'm going to do, there's not going to be any air defenses on the target. So what
we're going to do is I'm just going to attack the nuclear plant undefended. I'll
show you guys how to do a pop-up attack, and then I'm going to put down an SA-6
and some man-pads to guard it. And then I'll do the pop-up attack again, showing
you guys how important it is to do a pop-up attack on a heavily defended target.
So let's get in game. Okay, so we're now in game and we're ingressing towards
the target. So let's go over what we're going to be doing here. So right now,
I'm flying the flight plan on that low altitude. And the idea is that about four
miles away from the target, I'm going to pitch to the left or right 30 degrees
offset, 30 to 40 degrees offset. And then when I'm about three miles away from
the target, I'm going to pop up 25 to 30 degrees, offset my wings left or right,
so I can get eyes on the target and visually acquire it. Then I'm going to roll
in and dive bomb it. And what bombing mode we're going to be in, or what master
mode we're going to be in, is going to be in the air defense. So what we're
going to do is we're going to approach the ingress in nav mode. Then when we're
at about 10 miles or so, we're going to switch to CCRP. And we're going to
remain in CCRP the entire time until we see the target visually. Then we're
going to switch to CCIP and then release bombs in that fashion, roll off egress
at low altitude. And the reason why we want to use CCRP is very important. CCRP
is going to tell us our current range to the target's ear point. And it's also
going to tell us our offset angle to the target's ear from the gun cross. So
that allows us to have an idea of how far we need to turn in order to align
ourselves onto the target. And it'll also make sure that we're never going to
overshoot the target or otherwise pop up too early. And if you're in CCIP mode,
it won't show you the current range to the steer point on your HUD. It'll tell
you the current range to the CCIP pipper, and that's no good. You always want to
be aware of how far away you are from the target. Otherwise you're basically
going to be eyeballing it the entire way. Which is okay if you're doing an
impromptu pop up attack that you didn't really plan. But you're always going to
want to use CCRP if it's a planned pop up attack. And to really maximize your
effectiveness and to maximize your security. Now there's a few cockpit settings
that you should probably set before you do this. And normally you would do this
on the ground. You don't want to do this in the air. You want to do this on the
ground. But I'm already in the air. Just speed things up. So the first thing is
you're going to want to display your DED data on the HUD. So this guy right
here, the DED. We're going to want to display that on the HUD. And the reason
for that is you always want to keep your heads up. Okay? Or your head up. You
don't want to be looking down in the cockpit looking for stuff. You don't even
want to be glancing down at the DED. You want to keep your head up the entire
time you're doing a pop up attack. Because it can be really dangerous. You've
got to look for short range air defenses, man pads, SAMs, direct ground fire.
All sorts of threats are going to be possible. So when you're doing a pop up
attack, make sure that your DED data is on the HUD. This way you can very
clearly see what's your point you're referencing. The second thing, well let's
show you where that switch is before we go on to the next thing. So it's over
here, it's on the right side of your joystick. This switch right here, DED data.
We want to flip that into the up position. And now you'll see that the DED is
now displayed on the HUD. Another switch that we want to turn on is radar
altimeter. This guy right here to the top right of DED data. We want to have
that in the up position. And the reason for that is, by default, it's only going
to show you your barometric altitude. So this number right here is not your
altitude from the ground. This is your barometric altitude. So it says we're at
1530 feet, which is totally incorrect. You can see that the ground is right
below me by about 100 feet. And if that was correct, I would be way higher in
the air. So what we want to do is we want to populate this box right here, which
is your radar altitude. And then your aircraft will use a radar to ping the
ground and get you your exact distance from the ground. So in order to turn on
the radar altimeter, we have to put this switch into the up position. And now
you'll see the radar altimeter box is now active. And we're 790 feet from the
ground. That's our true altitude from the ground. Another thing you're going to
want to do when you're doing a pop-up attack is you're going to want to make
sure that you have a flare program ready to go. For me, I have Program 2 as a
flare program. It doesn't matter what program you set it for, but just make sure
you have a flare program ready to go so when you pop up, you can defend yourself
against man-pads. Lastly, when you do a pop-up attack, one of the most common
noob mistakes is to not set an arming delay on your bombs. And if you use it a
full arming delay, your bombs are just going to be duds. They're basically going
to hit the target and that's going to be it. So make sure you go into the
control area and set an arming delay. And for more information on that, you can
watch my CCIP video. And also when you do a pop-up attack, you want to make one
pass and then haul S. So that means you want to drop all your ordnance with one
pulse. You don't want to be making multiple runs at the target. For every
additional run you make at a target, you substantially increase your chance of
being shot down. So that being said, I'm going to release in pairs. And since
the target is pretty big, I'm going to leave the spacing of 175 feet. But if it
was a small target, like a depot or something, I would change it to about 50
feet. So I have 2 Mark 84s going to release in pairs. So now we're pretty much
good to go. One other thing that I am going to go over is the missile step key.
So like I said, we're going to be switching from CCRP to CCIP in this attack.
Now, most of you, if you wanted to do that, you would probably come to this MFD,
you'd look down from your HUD, you'd look at your MFD and you'd click this
button and switch it to CCIP. Now, that's fine if you're at high altitude and
you're doing it at leisure. But if you need to switch this instantly, don't have
time to mess around with looking down from your HUD. It's also going to lower
your situational awareness. That's no good. So there is a HODIS function to
switch from different bombing modes. So we don't need to use the MFDs. What we
can do is we can use the missile step key. And the default binding for that on
the keyboard is Shift forward slash. It's also your nose wheel steering key by
default. So if we press that, we can very quickly switch bombing modes. We can
see I'm in CCRP, then it goes to CCIP, and then DTOS. So make sure you have that
bound or you at least keep it by default and just know what the binding is. This
way you can very quickly change that without having to look down and compromise
your security. Those are just a few tips as far as preparing your aircraft for a
pop-up attack. Now we're going to ingress toward the target and do a pop-up
attack. Ok, so we're now approaching the IP. We're about five miles from the IP
and then there's about eight miles to the target from the IP. So let's very
quickly go over the basics of what we're going to be doing again. We're going to
be approaching the target from the IP. When the range is about four miles, we're
going to offset to the right or left. In this case, I'm going to offset to the
right. And I'm then going to pitch up 25 degrees once I'm about three miles out.
Get angels and then I'm going to tilt my wings to the left. This way I can look
to my left, my 10 o'clock, and get eyes on the target. Then I'm going to attack
the target with CCIP and then egress south. I can visually see the target from
here to my left. Now we're IP inbound. Nine miles out. Five miles. Pitch to the
right. Go up. I can visually see the target to my 10 o'clock low. I'm going to
hold it to about 4,000 feet and roll in. Switch to CCIP. Switch to CCIP. Roll
off to the south. Okay, now let's try that again except this time the enemy has
an SA-6, a AAA battalion, and an infantry battalion guarding the nuclear plant.
Pull up. Pull up. Pull up. Pull up. Pull up. Altitude. Altitude. Altitude.
Altitude. Altitude. Altitude. Altitude. Altitude. Altitude. Altitude. Altitude.
So as you can see, those air defenses didn't have enough time to acquire me and
engage me because I did a public attack. If I were to do that at altitude, I
would have been probably killed. Watch, I'll go ahead and pop up right now.
Let's do an imbalment and gain some altitude and you'll see that these air
defenses will attack me. If I were to come in at this altitude, it would have
been a bad day. Sam launch. Get engaged by AAA. Warning, warning, warning,
warning. It's not hidden, it's just on the runway. Contact target, soldier two.
Soldier two, cleared hot. Clear hot. Contact on the mic. Soldier one, contact on
the mic. One is cleared hot. Clear hot. This is windmill zero four. This is
windmill zero four. They both mix confirmed destroyed. Roger, call smokes one
unit in south, two units. Roger, one, contact smoke. Four was it hot? Bad two
ups, bad one was in. Roger, one is clear. Roger, one is clear. One two one, it's
an eastern bush. Four was it hot? I have one. Crack three, magnum six goff one
zero zero. Just a point forty two being weather problems. Hammer status. Hammer
three one left to steer six. Tracks at three, AAA. Hammer two, hammer three,
there's AAA back in your position. I don't see it. That's right below us. Hammer
status. Okay, hammer one is going to target that underneath you. Two supported.
Hammer status. Tracking AAA, fifteen west of both. Copy, let me know where
you're at so we can keep an eye on you. Thanks. Right. Clear recall, she'll know
when. I'll hang up the phone. Roger, I'm on the phone. Okay, there's a I'm on
the phone. Roger, I'm on the phone. Let's go. Let's go. Okay. Okay. Hi, welcome
to another Falcon 4 BMS tutorial. This is going to be a really quick tutorial in
which I'm going to show you how to take off the taxing process and basically how
to get airborne. And it's for, you know, beginners to the game that don't really
know how to navigate an air base. The first thing we need to do is in order to
talk to the tower on the air base, we need to program the frequency for the
tower, the radio frequency into our data cartridge. And in order to do that, I'm
going to refer you to the data cartridge video. Watch that first and then come
back here. And once you have a frequency set, you're pretty much good to go. So
I'm just going to I'm in the campaign now. It's a random flight that was
automatically created by the ATO. I'm just going to get in game and then we'll
take it from there. Okay, so we're now in game on the taxiway and we're ready to
take off and get this flight rolling. Now there's a few things that I need to do
in order to make that happen. Number one is I need to taxi my aircraft onto the
threshold of the runway. And before I do that, I need to request permission to
take off. And once I'm finally in position on the runway, I'm going to be
cleared to take off by the air controller in the tower. And this is really
important on busy air bases. It's really important on in the campaign, because
if you don't coordinate with the tower, you're going to tend to pretty much get
people killed. There's going to be mid air collisions, going to be collisions
when you take off. So let's go over the fundamentals of taxiing. Okay, so we
need to have our nose wheel steering on the nose wheel steering allows the front
wheel of the gear to basically operate like a car and you can make turns as you
would in a car. Okay, the indication for the nose wheel steering is on the right
side. It's on the right side of the HUD here. Right here. This guy right here,
ARNWS. That means nose wheel steering is activated. And if I turn nose wheel
steering off, you'll see it go away. Okay. That tells you if the nose wheel
steering is on. And how do you turn on and turn off the nose wheel steering? The
default key is shift forward slash. And just so you know, just for your own
information, that's also the same key is also used for missile step on the
HODIS. So, we need to make sure that where our nose wheel steering is on, then
what we're going to do is we're going to increase the throttle to about 25% and
just let it roll. And if we start to go too fast, if we start to lose control of
the aircraft, we're going to hold down the brakes, the wheel brakes, and that's
going to be your K key. You have to hold it down in order to brake. And the way
we're going to turn while we're on the taxiway, we're going to use the rudder.
Either the rudder pedals or if you have a joystick with a twist axis, then we're
going to use the twist on the joystick. But the rudder will allow you to turn.
And the thing is when you're taxiing is you want to make very slight inputs. You
don't want to really slam on the rudder or go too fast because that will cause
you to flip over. So, that being said, let's unpause the game and let's request
permission to take off. And the way we talk to the tower is we're going to use
our comms, okay? And that's going to be through the T key, the Tango key on the
keyboard. We'll bring up the tower comms. And we can see here there's a few
options. We can request a hot pit refuel. We don't want to do that. We can have
them install or remove shocks. We don't need to do that. This guy right here,
request taxi. That's what we want to do. And once we do that, I'm just going to
turn my comms back on. There's probably a lot of AI chattering right now. Once
we request taxi, then the controller will give us permission to either hold in
place or to taxi onto the runway. Serpent 11 ready for departure. So I'm going
to increase my throttle a little bit. I've been given clearance to taxi. I'm
just going to, you can see here my throttle, I'm just a little bit above idle.
70% on the RPM gauge. 70% on the RPM gauge is idle. And on that, a little bit
below 80. If you go above 80, then you're going to tend to pick up enough
momentum that you can actually take off. So we want to stay below 90 or so. And
you can see there's another flight in front of me. There's another flight in
front of me and they're taking off. This is what you expect to run into in the
campaign when you have a busy air base. And right now I took, I put the throttle
to idle because I noticed I was going a little too fast. And that will make me
slow down a bit. And if I wanted to decrease the speed even further, I could
just hold down the brakes like that. So these guys are taking off. Apply the
brakes and then use the rudder to turn. And you see the other flight is now
airborne. I've been cleared to take off. And they might say position and hold.
And if they say position and hold, that just means go onto the runway and just
wait for further clearance. They might also say clear to take off and that means
you can take off right away. They also might say hold short and that means do
not take off under any circumstance and basically stay on the taxiway. So I'm
clear to take off. Now what we're going to do is we're going to line up our
meatball. This guy right here, this circle with the lines coming out of it is
called the meatball, or flight path marker. That's telling you where the nose of
the aircraft is heading. And what I want to do is I want to line up the meatball
on the end of the runway. So you can see right here, I can see the end of the
runway. I can see the ILS markers and all that. The tower is angry at me but I'm
not taking off. It's going to kill my comms. We want to put that flight path
marker on the end of the runway. And then we basically are in position. And once
we're in position, we're going to hold down our brake key. We're going to put
the throttle up to 85%. And then we're going to take the nose wheel steering off
and then let it roll for a few seconds. And then once we've rolled for a few
seconds, we're going to put the afterburner fully on until we're at about 180 or
190 knots. And then we're going to pull up pretty hard. I would say about at
least 50 to 60% back. So I'm going to unpause now. I'm in a good position. I can
either turn the nose wheel steering off now or I can do it after I rev up. But
I'm going to turn it off now. I'm now going to put the throttle up to about 85%.
I'm going to let it warm up the engine so you don't have a compressor stall.
Then I'm going to release. I'm going to let it roll for a few seconds. And then
I'm going to go full burn. Now we're rolling. I'm going to look at the airspeed
indicator on the left side of my HUD. Once that is about 185, 190, I'm going to
pull up. I'm going to pull directly up. And if you go off course while you're
rolling, you can just use your rudder. Your rudder will still work. It just
won't be as sensitive as when you have nose wheel steering. Right now, I'm just
going to pull up. Press G to raise your landing gear. If you go above 300 knots
with your landing gear down, you're going to actually snap them off. So that is
a no-go. And we probably missed it because I had the comms off. But the tower
will clear you to resume on navigation. Which means essentially... I'm going to
kill the comms again. It will tell you to resume navigation, which basically
means you're now clear to fly and go on as fragged. And I'm no longer
controlling you. And when you take off, what I like to do is I like to full burn
until about 350 knots. Remain 10 degrees nose up. And then come out of the burn.
And that gives you enough momentum to maneuver and to maneuver onto the flight
plan. So that's the basics of taking off. If you guys want to see how to land,
you can check out my ILS tutorial. But this is something that you're going to
have to do every flight. And it's something that you really need to become
familiar with. And I've seen a lot of people mess up takeoffs and basically
crash their aircraft. And there's just one more thing that I want to stress is
when we were taking off, we had to turn nose wheel steering off. And the reason
for that is the nose wheel steering is too sensitive for a takeoff. If you have
it on and if you make any abrupt movements whatsoever while you're taking off,
your plane will basically... The gear will snap or you'll basically flip. And
that's why you have to turn it off. So I hope this video was useful and see you
in the air. Hi, welcome to another Falcon 4 BMS tutorial. In this short tutorial
we're going to be going over how to utilize bombs to suppress enemy air defenses
in conjunction with the had. And this is a technique which is normally not
utilized very often. And you would typically use this when you're in an area
that has air defenses and there's a few AAA radars. And you want to kill the AAA
radars without using your harms. So on this aircraft, for instance, we have
harms and we have CBUs. But we want to save the harms for like SAMs. We don't
want to use them on AAA radars or threats that are not as dangerous. So in
circumstances like this we want to use bombs. And if it's not a pre-planned
threat, in other words, if you didn't map it out already during the briefing and
you have a steer point to refer to, it's going to be difficult for you to find
that air defense using the radar. So we're going to use the had to orient
ourselves to the target. Then once we've oriented ourselves to the target, then
we're going to drop bombs on it visually and destroy the target. So there's a
few components of what we need to do before we can do this. Number one is we
need to power on the harms, of course. We need to set our bomb properties and we
need to turn on the HMCS. Now, as far as how to use the harm, how to use the had
and how to use bombs, that's covered in other tutorials. And if you don't know
how to do that, go view them now and then come back. We're going to turn on the
HMCS. I've already powered on my harms and I've already set up the bombs. And
we're going to unpause the game. So we're flying along. Switch to my had, check
things out on the had. Doesn't look like there's much going on at the target
area, there's a search radar, but that's fine because there's an air base
nearby. Probably just a radar from the air base. Right now the strike package is
behind me. They are about to begin their bombing run. I have to protect them.
Flying along. About 10 miles from the target area at this time. Uh oh, there's a
city right there at the target area. Cities usually mean AAA, but we'll have to
see. So far the scope is clear. Oh, what do we got here? A AAA radar just popped
up on the had. See here, it's right on top of the steer point. There's a AAA
radar, pop up AAA. And what you'll see now is if I designate that, normally you
would probably just shoot a harm at it because you don't know how to do what I'm
about to show you. But here's the kicker. When you lock something up on the had,
it actually translates and displays on the HMCS. So right now I have it
designated and I can visually see the target right here. To my 2 o'clock low.
You can see a road. You can see a road here. Have some trucks. Some AAA trucks
going down the road here. So what I want to do now is, now I'm going to use the
HMCS and the had to visually acquire the target. And we can see here, it's
pretty hard to see, but the target is a little radar dish, like a little mobile
shed with a radar dish on it. So I'm going to keep myself in had mode until I'm
a little bit closer. Then I'm going to switch into CCIP and destroy the target
with bombs. So radar is active and emitting now. If it starts engaging me, I'm
just going to drop altitude and go below 2,000 feet because the radar maximum
engagement envelope is 2,000 feet. I'm going to set myself up for a bombing run
here. That's looking pretty good. Switch down. We're going to go dive on it into
boresight. I can visually see the target now. I'm going to switch into CCIP.
Remember to drop flares. Altitude. Pickle. Flares again. And egress. Boom. That
was sort of... So that's how you refer to ground targets using the had. You can
actually use the CBU's with the had selected, but it doesn't really matter
because it does the job of orienting you to the target. And then once you've
oriented yourself to the target, you just switch into CCIP. See this...here's
another example. We can see this search radar in the airbase. I'm going to roll
in on it. I can visually see it. Switch to CCIP. Altitude. Altitude. CCIU's
away. Target destroyed. So what you need to do in that circumstance if you
destabilize the aircraft is you need to trim it out. And that involves applying
trim. And there's two ways to do that. You can either look at this panel and
click on the direction that you would like to trim out to. So for instance, if
your wing is dipping to the left when you're flying, you need to trim to the
right. So you can see there, there's an option that says roll trim. Roll means
left and right and pitch means up and down. So if your wing was dipping down to
the left, it's sort of like in a spin, you'd have to trim right. So you just
left click where it says right wing down. Don't do it now, but that's what you
would do. Or you could do it now, but if you're going to do it, make sure you
trim back to the center. Now during flight and in combat, you're not going to
use this panel manually because you don't have the time to actually do that.
You'll die if you try to look down here and manually trim, especially when
you're damaged. So the hotkeys to trim is alt and then followed by an arrow key
in whatever direction you want to trim. So if you want to trim the nose down,
it's alt and then you hold down the up arrow key. If you want to trim to the
left, it's alt and then you hold down the left arrow key. So that's the trim
panel. The next thing we're going to be going over is the lighting panel. That
is right to the right of the trim panel. All these switches are pretty much
bullshit. The only thing that's really important is the bottom switch. It's like
this wooden switch. It says off and master. That's your master on off switch for
your exterior lights. When you do a fence in check, you're going to be turning
your lights off. So in order to turn your lights off, you would just right click
and that's how you would do that. There's also some other important switches
here and that is the top left light anti-collision. You want to have that on at
night because if you're doing formation flying, there's a chance you're going to
have mid-air collisions if you don't have that on. And to the top right of that
panel where it says wing tail and fuselage, if you turn that off, it will turn
off the colorful lights on your aircraft but it will still leave on the
collision light and the flashlight. So that's a plus. The most important thing
about this is just know where the master and off switch is. Because you need to
turn your lights off whenever you do a fence in check. Another switch of
importance is all the way at the top of that panel. I'm going to say this
multiple times. Do not click the switch that I'm about to describe. Do not click
the switch that I'm about to describe. At the top of that area, below the canopy
jettison, there's a panel that says fuel and there's a switch covered by a red
plastic cover. It says master and off. That is your master fuel control switch.
That controls fuel flow to the tanks. Do not click that switch under any
circumstance. There have been times where people have confused the master fuel
switch with the master switch for the lights. And they've literally killed their
aircraft in mid-flight because they've cut off the fuel. I'm going to say again,
do not click the master fuel switch. The next thing we're going to go over is
manual pitch override. It's right above the throttle so you've got to go more to
the right. You see the throttle there. It's the big plastic thing with all the
knobs on it. On the top left of that panel next to a radio frequency card, you
see this white card with a bunch of numbers scribbled on it. To the left side of
that, there's two metal hoops. It says override and norm and it's in the norm
position right now. It says manual pitch above it. This switch is extremely
important because if you get into a flat spin... The way the F-16 works is it
has this thing called the FLCS, which is the flight control system. You don't
control your aircraft. The F-16 is unique in the sense that you don't actually
control your aircraft. When you press the joystick, when you put inputs on the
joystick, it tells the flight control system to do something. It asks the flight
control system to do something. You don't actually have any direct control over
the flight control surfaces. This is a really important point and it's not just
trivia. When you go into a flat spin, the flight control system is trying to
correct the flat spin, but it can't. It can't control the flat spin and you're
going to die. What you need to do if you're in a flat spin, and you'll know
you're in a flat spin because you won't be able to control the aircraft, you'll
be bobbing up and down, sort of like a duck in water. You'll just be slowly
bobbing up and down and losing altitude. When that happens, you need to turn the
FLCS system off. You can override the FLCS system. The way you do that is by
switching the switch from norm to override. You would left click and switch it
to override. Just know where that switch is because if you get into a flat spin,
we're not going to have time to explain to you where the switch is. What you do
is you put it into override and then you start violently pulling up and down on
the stick. When the aircraft bobs up, you're going to pull up. When the aircraft
bobs down, you're going to bob down. Eventually, you'll build up so much
momentum that you'll be able to break out of the stall and build up some speed
to get out of the stall. Just know where that switch is. Also, if you don't want
to look at the switch to click it, you can also press the O like ask a key on a
keyboard, which is a shortcut. That's a great point. I forgot to mention that.
The next thing we're going to be going over is the alt gear switch. Can I join
this? No. Above the override switch where it says 3 amp and dim and there's all
these lights that are lit up. It says 3 amp, dim, there's system power, all that
shit. There's a button that says search and it's flashing with a blue light. To
the left of that, there is a gray handlebar thing actually connected to the
metal part of the cockpit. It says alt gear. There's a little white button in
the center. You need to pull that if your gear will not come down. If you've
taken battle damage and you try to bring your gear down electronically and they
don't come down, you have to manually pull your gear. That's where it is. That's
the alternative gear release. You can also press alt, you can hold and press alt
G and that will bring down your alternative gear release. That's pretty
important because if you take fire, you took battle damage, you're coming in for
a landing, again, it's one of those things that we can't explain to you what to
do before you have to do it. You need to know it right now because you're not
going to have time to do it in the 10 seconds before you land. The next thing
we're going to be going over is the speed brake indicator. Speed brake indicator
is above that panel where it says 3 amp. It's right below that yellow handle,
like big yellow handle on the left side of the cockpit there. It says speed
brake and then it says close. The speed brake is basically all it is is these
boards that stick out of the aircraft and it creates drag. You put on the speed
brakes if you want to reduce your airspeed rapidly. The important thing here is
where it says speed brake, that's telling you what the current status of the
speed brake is. It says close, that means that your speed brake is not active.
In other words, it's tight to the fuselage of the aircraft and it's not creating
any additional drag. In order to cycle the speed brake, you hold down shift,
bravo, and you hold it down until close is replaced by a bunch of solid white
dots. The solid white dots means that your speed brake is deployed. You can mess
around with that right now. It won't break anything if you just hold down shift,
bravo. Just enable the speed brake and then once it's fully enabled, then just
put it back to close. The next thing we're going to be going over is the ECM
panel. That is this panel. It says HMCS and RWR, jammer, MWS, auto, DEGR, all
these switches. It's to the right of the yellow handle thing on the left side of
the cockpit. It says the whole area, HMCS and the top there, RWR on, etc. The
only thing you're really going to be worrying about here is the program knob.
You see it says PRGM and you have bit 1, 2, 3, and 4. That knob is going to
select what countermeasures you're going to use when you press your
countermeasures switch. For instance, if you're using my data cartridge and you
press your countermeasures button when you have program 1 selected, it's just
going to let out CHAM. If you have it on program 2 and you press your
countermeasure button, it's going to let out flares. You can set the programs to
whatever you want, but you need to know where the switch is because it's going
to determine essentially what happens when you press your countermeasures
switch. Other than that, the mode switch, I wouldn't recommend fucking around
with that because until you know the countermeasure system, above that where it
says CH and FL and there's two numbers above them, 60 and 30, that's pretty
important. That tells you your number of chaff and your number of flare. Right
now we have 60 chaff and 30 flare. If you've ever flown any other flight sims,
you might note that that's not that much. The F-16 does not have that much chaff
and flare and you need to be very careful with how much you're flying.
 you let out, especially flares. For instance, the A-10 has about four times as
much trap and flare and you can really spam it, but this is a smaller aircraft
so we can't really house that much countermeasures. Another really important
feature of the countermeasures panel is the left side of it. It's that separate
panel where it says 3 amp and dim. There's a button on here which is pretty
important and that is system power. There's going to be times where you start
your aircraft on the taxi and for whatever reason your RWR is not active. When
that happens you need to manually power on the RWR. The way you would do that is
the button right above dim, system power, you just click that. You can click it
right now, it won't destroy anything if you turn off your RWR. You can click it
right now and everything will go dim on that panel and your RWR will go dim. If
you click it again it will power it back on. Then you're good to go to use your
RWR. There's nowhere that switch is. The final feature of that area that I want
to go over is the HMCS. There's a panel that says HMCS right under the
countermeasures panel, the EWR panel, and that is HMCS symbology, inch, INC and
off. The earliest version of the F-16 did not have a helmet mounted cockpit
display. In the early 80's the Russians had the ability to actually project a
HUD onto their cockpit, or correction, onto their helmet off boresight. You
don't need to look at the HUD on the early Russian aircraft. You could actually
look at a target and then you could lock it up just by looking at it. The F-16
didn't have this until the Block 50, which is what we're in right now. What this
knob does is it turns that on. If you go ahead and do this right now, if you
left click that and you look around in the 3D mode, you're going to see this HUD
that's basically in sight when you look away from the HUD. You're going to see a
HUD still floating around. That's displaying on your helmet. It's called the
HMCS. This is really damn useful because you can, let's say, you are in a
dogfight and there's a bandit to your 10 o'clock. There's an enemy plane to your
10 o'clock and you don't want to turn into him because that will endanger you or
whatever. Whatever the tactical reasoning is, you don't want to turn into him
and you still want to kill him with your AIM-9, your Sidewinder. You can look at
him and then lock him up if you're in dogfight mode. It's also really useful
when you're doing attacks on SAM sites and on radar emitters because if you lock
up a radar using whatever other sensors you have, it translates onto the HMCS
and you'll be able to see a TD box or a target designator box, a square box,
where the radar is. Let's say you're flying and there's an enemy radar. You lock
it up using your other sensors. You can then look visually where it is. You can
know where it is and then you can drop bombs on it visually, which is really
great for situational awareness. One thing you're going to learn when you're
flying is that you don't want to rely too much on your sensors. You want to be
able to use your head and you want to be able to use your eyes as much as
possible. If you rely on sensors, you really get confused and bad things can
happen. That's the ECM. There's one thing about the HMCS I would like to say is
that it does not work if you're in the 2D snap mode. It only works in 3D mode.
Yeah, that's a good point. You have to be in the 3 mode on your view. Basically,
if you press 3 on your keyboard, that will put you into 3D view mode and 2 will
put you into 2D snap mode. In the 2D snap mode, you can't use the HMCS. It has
to be on the 3D mode, which is 3. If you don't have a track IR, if you don't
have a free track, you can still use the 3D mode by using either a hat switch or
by using your mouse to look around. The next item we're going to be going over
is the STORES config. Oh yeah, that's right, Matt. To the top left of your EWR
panel, where we can see the flares and the RWR and all that crap, it's to the
left of a button that says horn silencer. It's below a switch that says ground
jettison enable. There is a button STORES config, cat 1 and cat 3. The way the
FLICUS system works, the flight control system works is it has two different
tolerances. It has one tolerance or STORES config that is designed for when
you're carrying air to ground ordnance and that is called cat 1. Or, correction,
it's called cat 3. You're going to be in cat 3 whenever you have bags on your
wings or if you have bombs on your wings or if you have air to ground missiles
on your wings. In cat 3, your FLICUS will only let you pull 5 Gs before you
overstress the airframe. It's a limitation on your FLICUS so that you don't
overstress the airframe when you're maneuvering. It will let you pull 5 Gs.
Let's say you get jumped by bandits or whatever and you need to maneuver more
than 5 Gs. You need to pull 9 Gs or whatever to dodge a missile or whatever. You
can then jettison your shit using the emergency jettison, which we're going to
go over in a second. Let's say you didn't get jumped by bandits. Let's just say
you're done with your bombs and you don't have any bombs left. At that point,
you can convert cat 3 into cat 1 by flipping that switch up. Now, if you're in
cat 1, you can pull up to 9 Gs and the FLICUS system is way more responsive.
Bottom line is, if you have bombs on your wings, you're going to be in cat 3. If
you don't have bombs or bags on your wings, you're going to be in cat 1. Cat 1
is better for maneuvering. Cat 3 is more restrictive but it's better for when
you have bombs on your wings because you don't want to overstress the airframe.
That's the Storrs Config switch. The next thing we're going to be going over is
the wheel lights. To the top right of the Storrs Config switch, there's a switch
that says breaks channel 1, channel 2. Ignore that. To the top right of that,
there is a silhouette of an aircraft and it says wheels on it. This is an
indicator of the status of your landing gear. Each light corresponds to the
wheel in question. You have three wheels or you have three gears. You have a
front gear and then two in the rear. If they're all green, then that means that
you're good. If your gear are up, they're all going to be blank. What you're
going to find is, if you try to bring your gear down and they don't turn green,
that means that you are fucked. That means that your gear did not come down and
you need to get your gear down by another means. We went over this before. How
do you get your gear down by another means? You use the alt gear release. If
your gear don't come down, if they're indicated as not coming down when you try
to bring them down, you can bring them down with the alt gear release. To the
left of that is emergency Storrs jettison. The great thing about the F-16,
there's this one quote by this pilot called Pete Panani that I love. He says,
the F-16 can be the heaviest bomber ever, but you can instantly turn into the
best dogfighter ever. The reason for that is, the F-16 can only pull 5 G's when
it's in cat 3, but you can instantly turn into a dogfighting killing machine by
this emergency jettison. Let's say you're loaded up with bombs, you're really
heavy, you're really unmaneuverable. It doesn't matter because at any time you
can become a dogfighter and you can become the deadliest dogfighter pretty much
besides the F-22. How you do that is you just jettison your Storrs. There's two
ways to do it. By the way, don't do this right now. There's two ways to do it.
You can either hold in the emergency jettison Storrs button, which is to the
left of the wheels indicators, or this is how you're always going to do it
usually. You're usually not going to do it by pressing the button. You're
usually going to do it by doing a keybind. You're going to hold down Control J,
Control Juliet. That will do an emergency jettison of all your underground
Storrs. This is really important. You're going to use this every third or fourth
mission you're going to be using this switch, especially in the campaign because
you never know what's going to happen in the campaign. It's basically the Wild
Wild West. Anything can happen. You can get ambushed by anything. There's Sam's
all over the place. A component of being a really good pilot is knowing when to
jettison your Storrs and when to hang on to your Storrs and try to defeat a
missile. That's something that's going to take you a while to figure out. The
bottom line is, if you're really in danger, if someone shoots a missile at you
and you don't know if you're going to be able to survive or not using pulling
5G's and going through your nuts or whatever, just emergency jettison. No one's
going to think lesser of you if you jettison your shit. The most important thing
is saving the airframe and saving you, the pilot. Just jettison if you feel like
you're in danger and you need to pick up some speed and start to maneuver, just
jettison your shit. One more thing I'm going to go over before Force goes over
some stuff is we're going to go over all the center gauges in the center of your
cockpit. Now what we're going to be looking at is the center of your cockpit
now. Center of view on the cockpit. I'm just going to very briefly just name the
things that are here. I'm not going to describe them all. I'm just going to name
them. The top left thing, it's like this green circle with three inner circles
and there's a green LED cross in the center, cross hair in the center. That's
called your RWR, Radar Warning Receiver, and that tells you if there's radar
emitters. Below that is your left multifunction display or MFD, and that by
default will have your fire control radar on it. Force is going to go over this
later. I'm just naming these features. In the center of the cockpit under the
HUD is where it looks like this keypad with all these different buttons. That's
called the ICP. The ICP is basically like a keyboard for your computer. It
controls all the inputs to the computer in the F-16. If you want to change bomb
spacing or actually that's wrong. If you want to change what frequency you're on
or change what steer point you're on, stuff like that, you'd use the ICP. If you
want to change what radio you have selected or what data link channel you're in,
you'd use the ICP. Above that, above the ICP is the HUD. The HUD is basically a
digital representation of all your different sensors and it gives you
situational awareness of where you're going, where you're at. To the top right
of the cockpit, it's like this little green TI-83 display. It looks like a
really shitty calculator. That is the DED. The DED is basically displaying, it's
like a display screen for the ICP. It's just telling you whatever you click on
the ICP corresponds to the DED. Below that is an artificial horizon with a climb
dive indicator. To the right of that is your fuel flow indicator, how many
pounds of fuel you're burning per minute. Below that is your right MFD which
typically has your navigation on it or your HSD. All this shit is going to be
gone over in depth. I'm just identifying these features for you. Below the ICP
is known as the analog controls. When you're using analog controls, it's usually
because your digital instruments have failed. You're going to be doing this more
than often because the F-16 doesn't have that many redundant systems. It just
has a few. If you lose your computers, if you lose your digital systems, you're
going to have to fly what's known as BFR or visual flight rules. The way you
would do that is by these analog gauges below the ICP. These analog gauges tell
you the same information as your digital systems. They're just not digital.
Simple as that. They're steam powered. Let's go over these two big gauges. The
two biggest gauges right under the ICP. On the right side one, the big one where
it says it should say like zero zero and then it has a thing that's trailing off
and then zero zero and it probably says 2892 under MB, that is your altitude. So
when you're on the ground it's obviously going to be zero and it's in feet.
Everything on the F-16 is in feet. That's in feet and MB is the barometric
pressure. You don't have to worry about that. Just know that that's your
altitude. Left of that is your airspeed indicator and it's in hundreds of knots.
The red arrow, the two arrows, green and then red. Green is what's known as
corner speed. That's like your ideal speed for maneuvering. Red is maximum
speed. If you go above red then you're going to over speed your airframe and you
might damage your flicker system. The inner number inside that little half
circle or wedge or whatever, that is your Mach. Mach is basically a reference of
how fast you are in regard to the sound barrier. If you go Mach 1 you're going
supersonic. If you go anything above Mach 1 you're supersonic. That's your Mach
number. The center middle, the center middle, it's like a red and white globe
thing, that is an artificial horizon with a climb and dive indication. The
yellow jaggedy thing in the center, that's an indicator of where your wings are.
This is how you know what aspect your nose is at. If your nose is low, nose is
high, if you're level. Right now we're level so the yellow line is level on the
climb and dive indicator. To the left of that is angle of attack. You're
probably not going to be referencing that. VDI you're probably not going to be
referencing. Below the climb and dive indicator, oh and one other thing, this is
important, I forgot to mention this, each line, each big line on the climb and
dive indicator is 5 degrees and each little line is 2.5 degrees. For instance,
if you lost your instruments and you needed to do a landing, you'd want to put
it on the small line below the artificial horizon. The reason for that is
because when you touch down you want to be about 2.5 degrees down. So the little
half lines are 2.5 degree increments and the big lines are 5 degree increments.
Below that is what's known as the HSI. It's like a compass, it has a little
cross in the center representing your aircraft and it has a bunch of shit. So
the HSI is basically an analog form of your HSD or your navigation mode on your
F-16. What it tells you is it tells you your current bearing and it also tells
you the bearing of the current steer point that you have selected. Which is
really great because if you lose your digital systems there's still a chance
that you could still reference your steer points even though your digital
systems are down. So right now the heading of the aircraft is that big fat white
line at the top and we're facing due north right now. There's a little white
triangle on the right perimeter of the HSI and that is telling you the current
heading to the steer point. So if you were to cycle through your steer points
that would change. Directly across from that white triangle on the other side
where it says west, it's hard to see because they're right on top of each other
but there's another little white line and that's showing you the intercepts of
the flight plan. So if you can imagine this aircraft symbol in the center
turning 90 degrees to the right we would be perfectly lined up to go to steer
point 2 or correction to steer point 1. Okay also the top left tells you the
range to the steer point, the top right tells you your current course. The left
side of the HSI has different navigation modes. You have TACN navigation, ILS
navigation and NAV. NAV is what you're going to be in most of the time. I'm not
going to go over like TACN or ILS because that's way above the level of this
course but just know where that knob is. The knob to the right where the panel
says fuel quantity, that will tell you, I don't want to go over this now because
the course is going to be going over that portion, but pretty much this knob
controls the display of the fuel gauge telling you your total poundage of fuel
remaining. So if it's on norm it shows them all combined. Okay so there's
different fuel reservoirs on your aircraft. There's the internal reservoir, then
there's a center line tank and wing tanks. This knob lets you select what
reservoir you want to be looking at or to tell how much fuel is left on your
total fuel poundage gauge. So that's what this does. It also lets you test your
fuel poundage to see if it's accurate. Okay with that being said, I'm going to
ask for questions and then we're going to turn this over to the force major. So
if you have any questions, now's the time to ask any questions regarding what
we've gone over so far. Hey Krauss, it's Bitter. I got a little bit of a
problem. Okay. I'm back the 2D screen and I can't rejoin. For some reason I got
dropped and all the flights are showing as RTB. I can't get back in my jet.
Alright, well I mean, I don't have to tell you. That's just, we're going to have
to deal with that for now. It's probably because we'd have to re-host, but if
you don't want to do that, that's fine. It's probably because we've been on the
ground for so long. Yeah, we can re-host because it would be effortless with
Stefan hosting. Does anyone have any questions before we do that? Feel free to
ask now. I prefer that people ask questions because if you don't ask questions,
you die pretty much. You're going to make mistakes and kill yourself or kill
others. So if you have any questions, ask now. Alright, with that being said,
let's, so Stefan, you're here, right? Sure. I'm going to re-host. Alright, cool.
Let's re-host. So I'll begin my portion of the instructions. So first I'm going
to start with the HUD. The HUD is probably the most important thing in terms of
how you fly the aircraft. It gives you, it's called a heads up display,
obviously, and it gives you all kinds of critical information that's very easily
seen at any given time. I'm going to assume that you guys have your JHMCS
because that's technically an extension of the HUD, so I'll give it, take about
15 seconds. Everybody turn on your JHMCS. Remember, cross-point out that switch.
It's below the countermeasure switch on the left part of the cockpit. I'll wait
about 15 seconds. Does it matter what you're doing? No, the more it is to the
right, the darker the HUD is going to be, pretty much. Okay. Okay, so the HUD,
there's basically three modes, they're called master modes, that the F-16 can be
in. It can be an air-to-air master mode, air-to-ground master mode, or nav
master mode, and I'll explain those in depth later. By default, when you join
the game, you should be on nav mode, and the way you spot that is at the bottom
left, it should say NAB, but I'm going to start from the top left and go
clockwise all around the HUDs, from the top left, through the top, to the right,
and then in a clockwise fashion, I'll go over every feature. At the top left of
the HUD, you should see two numbers, 1.0. Okay, that is basically the force of
the gravity on the aircraft at any given time. Oh, hey, before you do that,
guys, press 1 on your keyboard and it will only show you the HUD. Good point,
thanks. Okay, so everybody press 1 on your keyboard and literally we'll just
have a HUD display. Thanks for pointing that out, Carl. So at the upper left,
you should see 1.0, and that is simply the force of gravity on your aircraft at
any given time. By definition, because we're sitting still, gravity is literally
1 point, it's like 1 times gravity, so it's just the effect of gravity without
maneuvering or anything. You'll realize that when we go up to flight later
today, and if you've ever flown around yourself, if you pull the aircraft,
you'll actually, that G value will increase up to about 9 Gs is about the max on
the F-16. Depending on your loadouts, that's really important to monitor that G
as you're pulling, because if you're in category 3 as cross explained, you don't
want to exceed 5 Gs, otherwise you'll get focused failures and structural
damage. To the right, I'll start from the top, you'll see a cross at the very
top, and that is the gun cross. That is simply where your gun on the F-16 is
aiming. I think when we fly later, probably for next event, we'll go into how
the gun actually works, but that's really important to know, is that's where the
nose, technically the nose of the aircraft is, but when it comes to 98% of the
time when you're flying, you really don't care about where the gun cross is,
because you rarely use guns, and it is not really a good indicator of where the
aircraft is going. We'll go into that in more detail later. Below, you will see
about 8 hash marks, actually 7 hash marks. Some of them are longer than others,
it goes long, short, long, short, etc. It starts with 1.6 on the left, and then
1.9 on the right. That's simply the cup is heading of the aircraft. To get the
exact heading of the aircraft, you'll see a box below that that says 176, and
that is about as accurate heading as you can get. It's three decimals. That
represents the course of the aircraft. I'm going to make a small note after I
discuss the HUD in terms of how headings are achieved, especially if some of you
guys lead later on, how do you determine which heading to go. That's going to be
a very small tangent that I'm not going to spend that much time on, but it's
kind of important to know. Straight up, you're going to see the heading of the
aircraft 176. The 16 and 1.9 simply represent the headings 160 and 1900. If we
were to, technically, if we were flying, if we were all in the air in a nice
line, and the lead, if we all decided to turn left and put the nose of the
aircraft at 16, we'd be flying at 160. Same goes for the right, 190. To the
right of that, you'll see Alpha Lima 300, AL 300. That is simply the altitude
allowance. That I will go into more detail when we discuss the ICP, essentially
the calculator of the F-16. But that basically, if you fly below 300 feet, Bitch
and Betty, the female boys in the F-16, will literally say altitude, altitude
indefinitely when you're below 300 feet. That's good to have in a lot of
situations because Betty's basically telling you that you're really low and you
need to watch your maneuvering. In some attack profiles, hopefully you'll
experience in UAF, we'll be flying really low, and I will show you guys how to
make that zero. Because it gets really annoying after a while when you're flying
30 minutes with Betty saying altitude. You might as well just jump out the
window. So we will show you how to put that at zero. To the right of that is a
bunch of vertical lines that are very small. The little hashes, that's not
what's important. What is important are the numbers that are to the right of
those hashes. At the very top, you'll see 002. Below that, 001. That is simply
200 feet and 100 feet respectively. 00 on the front is just an indication of
hundreds, which the brevity term, I hope you guys studied some of the brevity,
but the brevity term is cherubs, which is basically a baby angel in mythology or
whatever, or religion. Cherubs is a baby angel. Angel is the term used for every
unit of 1,000 feet altitude. So 002 would be cherubs two, 001 would be cherubs
one. That brings us to the next point. Below that is a rectangle with a little
triangle to the left where it says 000. That means we're simply at ground level.
If you look to the right, actually, if you just steer straight ahead, you can
see that the ocean's right off the distance. So we're basically at sea level. So
that's why it's 000. Below that, depending on your data cartridge setups, but
for the majority of you, since you have Pross's Profile, it should work, or
should be the case that you should see R with a rectangle and 000. That is your
radar altimeter. There's a big difference between barometric altitude and radar
altitude. Barometric altitude simply uses air pressure to compute. It's what you
use most of the time. But for instance, if you're flying over Mount Everest,
29,000 feet is not high enough. That's basically ground level because the first
altitude reading, the one that's above, the R with the rectangle, the rectangle
with the triangle, that would read 29,000. But, as we all know, Mount Everest is
29,028 feet, so you would basically crash and die. So the way you figure out
your true altitude above the terrain, above mountainous terrain, this is very
valuable, is you use a radar altimeter readout, which is a square, excuse me,
rectangle with the R to the left. Below that, you will see B059R. This is
basically the range to a stair point. Everybody is referencing stair one because
that's the default stair. We're basically 59 feet. It's not very clear right
now. It'll be more clear. I don't really like explaining this on the ground, but
that's simply the range to stair point. That's really important information
because it allows you to, for instance, if you put a stair point on a SAM and
let's just say you're 30 miles out, well then you'll know, you have to go it
gives you situational awareness of terms of navigation, how far are you out from
the target or how far are you out from the IP, how far are you out from the air
base, the nearest air base. Below that, you should have six Xs all in a row.
Those six Xs are simply Xs because we are not moving. Before we take off, you'll
notice that as we start to move, you'll start to see the numbers just change
rapidly. When we're in the air, it'll be more clear because we're moving, we're
in the air, we're flying, but it's basically the time that you will arrive at
that stair point. It's not the time until you arrive. I say again, it's the time
you, it's basically the time that you will arrive. It doesn't count down. So if
we're flying, it'll be a number like 213030 or something or 213000. Okay, so
that'd be like 930 PM at night or something. And that basically tells you the
time, exact timing when you will be on that stair point. And you can throw a
bunch of advanced stuff we won't discuss. You can make it count down. Counting
down is a little bit more valuable because it basically says, oh look, I got two
minutes. It literally says you have two minutes until you reach the target, but
for our purposes, we'll discuss that probably tomorrow. Below that is a
basically simplified version of the BU059. Basically it says your like basically
100 feet at rounds. It's basically 100 feet from stair one. You change stair
points, you'll notice that the number on the right becomes a two. If you've
changed to stair two, three, stair three, et cetera. Okay. There's basically in
the HUD, you can have the DED display. We'll go into that later. So forget that
now. What I want to discuss is the bunch of, so now we went from all the way
from the left, we're right. I want to discuss the middle of the HUD before we
reach the far left, the bottom left. The middle of the HUD has a bunch of
hashes. Okay. You have three hash lines that are below the artificial horizon.
The artificial horizon, I think I forgot to mention that, is a line, a giant
line. Can't miss it. Runs across the entire length of the HUD. And if you look,
it actually runs on the ocean. That is the horizon. You'll notice that when you
get up to altitude, it won't ground stabilize onto the ocean anymore. It'll get
a little bit above. Just for the record, just know that if you put the flight
path marker, which we'll discuss on that line, you will be level. Okay. Below
that, you'll have six hashes. That represents a three degree light slope. Okay.
A three degree light slope is important because it basically allows you to land
at a good light slope. Okay. Six hashes, three degrees. That's important. So
when you basically fly a correct approach, just put the flight path marker on
that hash. Below that is five. That means five degrees nose down. Ten, ten
degrees nose down. Okay. So that's all what that means. It was five degrees, ten
degrees, and it goes all the way up to like 85, 90 degrees, basically. So that
basically gives you an indication straight up of how your pitch, your pitch and
your attitude. Now our final addition is the bottom left. You'll see four sets
of data. The first one, 0.10. Okay. That is your mock number. Okay. The mock
number is, I think it's 0.10 because we're not moving and when we actually start
flying, that number will probably be like 0.7 or 0.5 or something. It changes
when we fly. Below that is 1.0. This basically records the maximum amount of GFM
that you can fly. So that's the maximum amount of GFM that you can fly. So
that's the maximum amount of GFM that you can fly. Below that is 1.0. This
basically records the maximum amount of G you pull on a mission. Okay. It's kind
of useful. It's kind of like you can get a good joke after you fly a mission. If
you pull a lot of Gs or whatever, you can read it off. But that simply changes
only when it exceeds, you know, it obviously tells you the maximum amount of G
you've ever pulled on a mission. Below that, NAB, that is where the BOMIN will
be shooting shit and that will change according to your weapon modes. Below
that, 178124, this is extremely important. I can't stress it enough. It's simply
the bullseye location of your aircraft at a given time. Okay. It's not the
bullseye of what you have locked up or anything like that. I'll explain bullseye
after I make this point clear. 178124 is the bullseye of your position. Bullseye
is used in military, in the military, and also in the military. in military
aviation, it's basically an arbitrary point that's chosen at random in a
theater, okay? And let's just say the enemy were to compromise our comms, you
know, our radios. If we basically said, you know, go to this exact point, you
know, like go to this grid, you know, this grid coordinate, obviously bad things
would happen. They'd know exactly where we were hitting. So by basically
referencing a very close secret, it's one of the biggest secrets of any
campaign, by referencing an arbitrary point that the enemy doesn't know, even if
the comms are compromised, they won't know what we're referring to. The first
number represents the hitting, reflective of bullseye, so 178. So we're
basically just about south of the bullseye. The next number, 124, last three
numbers represent the range to bullseye. So we are literally directly south of
the bullseye, we're about 124 nautical miles out, okay? That's the HUD in
detail. Are there any questions? Nope, thanks. Okay, let's go ahead and move
down. So everybody get out of that one view. And if you actually go ahead, go to
the 3D pit and just move your head around with a JHMCS, the HUD symbology is
exactly the same. It's exactly the same. It's just presented where you're at.
You get a G readout, you get a airspeed indicator, you get an altitude readout,
you get a bullseye at the bottom left, same thing. And one of the nicest
features is as you move your head, you'll notice that it basically gives you, it
reads out the heading at which your head is pointing. And that is made clear as
you move your head from left to right, you'll notice those three numbers are
constantly changing really fast. Okay, that's the HUD in detail. Our next
chapter takes us to the ICP. Okay, the ICP is basically the calculator of the
F16. You can't say ICP without mentioning the DED. Okay, the DED is as Chris
mentioned, the TI-84 like digital screen that's to the right. You'll see there's
like a little index, there's something called an indexer and it's this little
thing to the right of the HUD where it says ARNWS below that is the screen I'm
talking about. It's simply yellow letters placed and posed on a green screen,
okay? Basically the inputs that you make in the ICP are connected to the DED. So
how the hell would I know what I'm putting in the ICP? Like if I put in a bunch
of numbers and stuff, you know by simply looking at the DED. So first, there's
only gonna be a couple of things I wanna mention on this because there's really
advanced things you can do but for our sake, we won't mention a lot of them.
COM1, COM2, if you click that, okay, go ahead and just click COM1, just keep
clicking between COM1 and COM2. This is how you input radio frequencies, okay?
For me, my default is 3.8, 5.15 and that's probably because I was flying the
Balkans and I haven't updated my data cartridge but you're gonna get a five
digit number, three digits and the thousands, hundreds, tens, or whatever,
hundreds, tens, ones place and then a decimal and then two numbers after that.
That's usually, that's almost always the frequency of any aviation is gonna be
just like that format. We use something called, we basically uniform in Vicar,
okay, UHF. Actually, I should make it clear. So let's just say we go through all
this shit, right? COM1, COM2, we wanna get back to the default display on the
DED. The way we achieve that is go below, okay, reference the ICP, you see
little buttons that say one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.
Okay, below numbers eight and nine, you should see this little rocker switch,
okay, that's what it's called. You'll see that you can go up and down with it or
left and right with it. RTN is left, SEQ is on the right, okay. For our
purposes, if you ever are screwing with shit and you're really confused, the DED
display is, on some page you've never seen before, how do you fix it? The way to
fix it is you simply click RTN, okay, and it'll go back to the default display,
which gives you a bunch of information. UHF, same for ultra-high frequency,
okay, that's used for, you have basically two radios and you have 16 UHF and
VHF, very high frequency. Depending on, usually you don't really have to screw
with that ever, there's things called package comms, that's usually uniform 10,
and later I'll show you how to input data on the ICP, I'm just trying to do a
quick overview on the DED and what we're looking at, okay. The ISDP one in the
DED display, that just represents tier one, you'll see a time readout below
strip point one, that is simply the time of 3D world, so it happens to be 9,
0949, so it's like 950 AM. Don't even worry about the shit, the line, the third
line of information, that's pretty much worthless. Okay, going back to the ICP,
so just to the left, we covered COM1, COM2, that's how you work your radios. IFF
is not implemented, don't worry about it. Lists, okay, everybody click list.
Okay, this basically brings up a bunch of things that the ICP, the native ICP
doesn't cover. If you notice where it says one, two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight, nine on the ICP display the buttons, you'll see a bunch of stuff
on them, like TILS, allow, strip point, cruise, time, all that stuff. Okay,
those are like, think of them as like a, like when you're texting on like an old
cell phone, remember how you would have like, there'd be different functions on
the keys. Okay, that's basically what we're looking at, but Lists basically
opens up, it opens up, it's like derivatives of those buttons, like it opens up
a whole new set of information between DATS, I'm looking at the DEV display now,
DATS, NAV, EWS, Bingo, VIP, INS, all that stuff, okay? I'm gonna cover DanaLink,
that's the only one I really want you to remember in the Lists screen. So I just
wanted you to see what it looks like and get you oriented on it, you really
don't need to screw with this, we never screw with this while we're in the air,
so don't worry about it. Let's go ahead and practice, how do you return from the
DEV display? And you simply go to the rocker switch, click RTN, okay? When I say
rocker switch, again, the little knob, little knob below the eight and nine on
the ICP, just click return, that brings us back as you can see. This is gonna
bring up an important conversation, so we've covered COM1, COM2, IFF and Lists,
now we have two buttons, air to air and air to ground. I mentioned before that
the F16 has three modes, it has air to air, master mode, air to ground, master
mode and NAV. Okay, there's shortcuts for this, but basically, if you click A-A
on the ICP, it will go into air to air, master mode, and this is the mode that
you use when, pretty much 80% of the time, when you're basically scanning the
air for contacts, using the radar, et cetera. If you click A-A and you look back
up to the HUD, you'll notice that some of the symbology, only actually one line
of the symbology is different. If you remember where NAV was placed, remember
right above the bullseye readout, 178124, it should say 2MRM, and that basically
means that you have two medium range missiles, which by definition are AMRAs.
Okay, so that kind of gives you like a weapons readout, your status. So the
shortcut to acquire the air to air master mode is pressing enter on the
keyboard, if you press enter. In fact, if you keep pressing enter, you'll notice
that it goes to 2SRM, you can hear it at home, and those are basically your
heaters. You can keep pressing it back and forth, it doesn't matter. It's
actually a good way, like if you screw something up, if you press one of these
master modes, it's kind of like a master clear, like it basically zeroizes any
mistakes or any inputs that you made. If you go to the right of that, where it
says A-G, you'll go into air to ground master mode. Now we're not carrying any
bombs in this mission. So where it says, remember how it went from NAV to 2MRM,
now it should say strafe. And that's because the only air to ground ordinance we
have are guns, so this will not concern this training session. So it's a common
new mistake, how the hell do you get out of these master modes back to NAV? NAV
is what we want, because that's what we're gonna be doing for this training. And
also, I just want the NAV master mode. So how do I get into it? It's very
simple. All you need to do is either double click A-A or A-G on the ICP, double
click it, and you'll go back to NAV every time. And that's gonna be our primary
mode for flying today. So I covered basically the six buttons that exist about
the ICP in relative detail. Okay, so now very briefly, I'm gonna go through the
nine buttons. Okay, we have T-I-L-S, we're not gonna cover that today. We have
allow, I'm gonna go into that. Just a sec, we have scare point STPT for number
four. We have cruise for number five. That's probably the most important button
on the ICP. Get into that later. Six is time, not important. Seven, mark, it's
too advanced for today. Eight, fix, too advanced. And nine, a cal, too advanced.
Okay, so we're first gonna start with number two, allow. Okay, everybody click
two on the ICP. And if you look at your DED display, remember what I was saying,
whenever you screw around with the ICP, you're looking at the DED with your
other eye. You know what I mean? You're basically, that's like the output. Like
you have like calculator and screen, the calculator screen is literally DED. So
in the allow screen, I'm gonna show you guys how, remember that allow, that
altitude allowance I was talking about in the top right part of the HUD where it
says AL 300? I'm gonna show you guys how to make that zero. So under no
situation will Betty be saying altitude, altitude to us. So if you notice at the
DED display, you're gonna have car allow, MSL floor, TFADB. Don't worry about
all that stuff. The only one that you really need to worry about is the first
one where it says C-A-R-A allow. If you go back to the rocker switch, remember
it's a switch below eight and nine. If you go up, if you click either the up or
down key, you'll notice that there's these thick bold green bars that surround
those altitudes. Okay, that is basically telling you that, that's, what data are
you selecting? Do you wanna select 300, 400, 10,000 for today or for what we
wanna do? We wanna select 300. So maneuver the bold bars to 300. Okay, now we're
gonna input data. The only thing you need to do is literally put in the fricking
data. It sounds very simple and it really is. So we wanna put in zero feet. So
that means under, unless we're going like negative, unless we're going to like
Death Valley or any kind of ridiculous, like low C-level place in the world,
Betty will never say altitude, altitude to us. So literally you just press zero
on the ICP and then click enter. Enter mean right above zero on the ICP. When
you did that, you should notice that it no longer reads 300, it reads zero. If
you go up to the upper right part of the HUD, it should say AL zero. Okay, so
that is really useful when we're flying low missions. It basically shuts Betty
up. So everybody go to return. The next page, we're gonna click on four on the
ICP. Okay, we're not gonna input any data. I just wanna show you what this looks
like. It basically gives you the latitude and longitude of a stair point. So it
should say STPT. And then you remember those bull bars I was talking about, it
has one selected. So that means it's basically reading out longitude and
latitude and elevation, including selling at the very bottom of the DED called
time on CRTOS. And that's too advanced for today, but that's sometimes useful
information. But yeah, basically that's lat and long. That's what we're gonna
cover. So let's go ahead and click return. The last page for today on the ICP is
cruise. Okay, click five on the ICP. And the DED display should have about five
values of data. Cruise, system, desktop, ETA. Okay, this is really useful for
something called flying a carrot. It's really only worth mentioning when we're
in the air because the carrot actually doesn't exist, but it's the theoretical
concept of basically flying at a certain speed to arrive on target on time. Now
we've been sitting in a cockpit on the ground for like 40 minutes or plus, so
we're totally late. But you should see system time. That just means the time of
day, like in the 3D world, 9.58. Desktop is the destination time on stairs. So
we were supposed to arrive at stair one, or technically at stair one, it means
when your takeoff time is. That's kind of useful to know the desktop for stair
one is your takeoff time. So we were supposed to take off at 9.33, 37, but we've
been trained, so that's why we're late. ETA is basically the time in which
you'll arrive. We're not moving, so our ETA is the same as your system time. And
don't even worry about the RQD ground speed. That's basically required ground
speed. So we'd have to go at like 1,000 knots to make up for our lack of moving,
but that's impossible. So that's basically the cruise page, or hold on. Excuse
me, there's subpages at the cruise page. The way to view the subpages is you
simply click five on the SCP. Again, if you click it again, you should see a new
page will come up that says cruise, RNG, that's in world bars, stair one, fuel.
That's basically telling you how much fuel you have at a certain stair point.
The next, click five again on the SCP. This is probably the most important
interaction you'll have in the ICP ever. Okay, this, it should say cruise home,
home plate, HMPT stands for home plate. That basically means air base that you
took off should be one, stair one is by definition your home plate. A fuel
readout, an optimum altitude, and a wind reading, a wind readout. I cannot
stress this enough, this is extremely important. If Krauss and I are in the air,
and we ask any of you guys what your fuel state is at home plate, this is how
you bring it up. Okay, what you do is in that circumstance, you just read off
the fuel status, and that basically is telling, the computer is telling you if
you're to return home at any given point, how much fuel would you have? Now,
ideally, you wanna have positive because you wanna have extra fuel landing. I'll
just say as a rule of thumb, if you have anything less than a thousand, it's an
emergency, and if you have anything less than 200, anything less than probably
like 700, you're in trouble technically. There's something called, a concept
called bingo fuel. Bingo fuel is basically, it's a thing that you can set, it's
well too advanced for now, and we're kind of getting long on time, but that
basically is like something that you plan a mission, then it's basically like a
turnaround time that if we're at a certain fuel state, we return home,
otherwise, we'll run out of fuel, we won't make it back to base. So, everybody
click RTN on the ICP, we're gonna go through this one more time. How do you find
your fuel state at home plate? How do you do it? Okay, you simply click five in
the ICP until it says CRUS and then home at the top. Just keep clicking it, keep
it, just keep clicking five, just spam five until it says home at the top, and
then read out the fuel, where it says fuel and that number. That number is what
we're looking at. Okay, so that is the ICP in depth. Fortunately, the rights of
the cockpit, I'm gonna cover that as well, but there's not that much. We're
gonna cover the MFDs at this time. So basically, the air to air radar is, go
ahead. You want me to take over, but you're sort of going off the script here.
Sure. We're gonna do the MFDs for the next session. Oh, okay, good. Okay, I
wrote down MFDs, okay. So yeah, thanks. So yeah, just going back to the ICP for
a sec. We're gonna go.
 the datalink settings. So, every time you fly you're going to be coordinating
with multiple flights, and it's really important to add them to the datalink
because if you don't then you won't be able to see them and they'll basically be
invisible to you. They'll show up on your radar but you won't know if they're
friendly or enemy. So, first thing I'm going to do, I'm going to host the
datalink and you've probably just heard some beeping noises. The datalink is now
active and what I'm going to do is, what we're going to do is we're going to add
the other flight to the datalink. I'm going to show you guys how to do that. So,
at the top of the ISP click list and then click enter and then click sequence on
the rocker switch. Left click where it says SEQ. And now you'll see on your DD
you'll say XMT30, number 1, number 2, number 3, number 4. That's the people that
are in your flight, within your flight itself. So, I'm the third flight in the
frag order, so I'm 3-1 and my wingman is 3-2, his is the only one that is 3-3.
It's different for the other flight behind me. You're probably 4-1, 4-2, 4-3,
etc. Doesn't matter. And then there's five, or correction there's four empty
slots, 5, 6, 7, 8. You can put in other flights there so you can track them on
the datalink. So, for instance, let's press the rocker switch down. So, press
down on the rocker switch until the green bars are next to 5. And then type in
1-1 and then enter. And then 2-1 and then enter. And then depending on what
flight you're in, if you're in 3, then put in 4-1, if you're in the 4 flight
then put in 3-1, and then put in 5-1 and then enter. And what that's going to do
is, it's hard to see right now because of all the spam that's on the MFDs, but
pretty much now all the other flights are in the datalink and we'll be able to
see them just like we would see our own flight. So that's really important,
you're going to do that pretty much every time you fly. So, let's go ahead and
click return. So, now we're going to go over the radar altimeter switch, cockpit
lighting and some other things, some miscellaneous switches, and then we'll get
back to the MFDs. So, on the right side of your right knee, where your right
knee would be by your joystick, there are a few buttons here that I want to go
over. So, where your joystick is, if you look to the right of your joystick,
there's 4 switches, okay? The switch all the way on the right side on the end of
that row, it says radar altimeter, okay? If that's in the up position, then your
HUD will display the radar altitude and not the barometric altitude. So you want
to have that in the up position usually. Another really handy switch is the DED
data switch, which is diagonally below and to the left of that switch. If that's
in the up position, you have to left click it twice, if that's in the up
position, then your DED will actually display on your HUD. It's a lot easier to
read your DED from the HUD because the text is bigger and it won't lower your
situational awareness if you look at it. The last thing is the lighting panel,
okay? The lighting panel is below, it's where all those big gray knobs are,
below all those other small knobs, okay? So, it says lighting on the left side
of the panel, you have a bunch of big knobs here, okay? There's two main things
that you're going to need to do here, okay? So, you have, it says primary, it
says primary and then under that it says, I can't even remember what that says,
instant PIN or something, something like that. It's the middle knob in the top
row. If you left click on that, it will light up your panels. And you're going
to need to do this if you're playing at night, otherwise you're not going to be
able to see anything in the cockpit. So, you can turn it on now if you want, it
won't destroy anything. You just left click that and it will turn your panel
lights on. Another interesting interior lighting feature is the consoles, or the
flood lighting to the bottom left. Where it says flood, there's a knob that says
consoles. If you click that, it will turn on flood lighting and you'll pretty
much get blinded if you try to turn it on now because it's so bright in the
cockpit already. But you can turn it on and see what it's like and you can right
click to turn it off. So, those are just some switches on the right side of the
cockpit. And now, so we're going to go over the basics of the MFDs, but we're
not going over them in depth. So, do you want to do that for us or should I?
Yeah, you got to do my gauges and then I'll discover the MFDs briefly so we can
get in the air and do shit. So, reference to the right, I'm going to go through
about three or four gauges that are really important, okay, to the right of the
MFD, to the right of the right MFD. Okay, you should, there should be four
gauges to the immediately to the right of the right MFD. Oil, that's simply oil
pressure. Nozzle position, that's really important because when you increase
throttle, your nozzle position will change. And there's a command or there's a
brevity term called buster. And if you say like buster plus 20, that means you
basically go into the burn and then go to, you set that gauge to about 20 or 40,
depending on what the leader says, that's important. RPM is probably the most
important gauge in that whole right side in that area because it tells you what
percentage RPM that you will use depending on the block, 52, the RPM percent
will stop at 95 and the block 50, which I think is what we're in, it will stop
at 105 and everything after that is in burn. You can hear, not only can you hear
the burn, okay, but you'll see the nozzle position change. That's an important
indication of if you're in the burn or not. Below that is inching core
temperature. If you take damage, I mean, you really don't need to pay attention
to that unless you take damage. If you do take damage and you start to see that
thing go past like 8.5 or nine, that means you're in real deep shit. Okay. And
then you need to throttle back. To the bottom line of that is the fuel gauge.
Okay. This is how you read off your fuel. You simply read off the five numbers
that exists where it's above total. Since for instance, my fuel state is you
only read off the first three numbers. Don't read out all five. That's like a
new thing. Just read off the first three numbers. So like it'd be 086 or
depending on everybody's else's fuel status. So I would say lead, I'm at 086 on
fuel. Okay. Just read out the first three numbers. The F16 by default can carry
7,100 pounds. Actually, it's like 7,200 pounds of fuel. So if your fuel is below
7,100, that means by definition, your tanks have been exhausted. I technically
don't like to judge my tanks, but at that point, it'd be the most appropriate
because you know I feel left in those wing bags or bags is the term for tank.
Last point, right above the right MFD is a fuel flow. That just basically means
how many pounds of fuel you burn per hour. In normal flight, you'd probably burn
anywhere between 5,000 and 9,000 pounds per hour. In the burn, you'll burn like
20,000 pounds per hour plus. That's kind of another way to calibrate what your
fuel or your engine power is between leads. So let's go in the MFDs. The only
things I'm really going to mention are the HSD on the right MFD. The other
systems are more relative to weapons for tomorrow. On the left, the FCR. The FCR
is called the fire control radar. It should be your default page in the left
MFD. I'll briefly go into how to activate different pages and stuff, what this
means. Basically, think of this as probably the most important instruments that
you have is this air-to-air radar. By definition, in navigation mode, the FCR,
there's two types of FCR, a fire control radar. There's an air-to-ground radar
and an air-to-air radar. This is the air-to-air radar. It has a blue line that
runs across the middle and that basically is the orientation of your aircraft.
If you were to turn left, for instance, the left part of the blue line would dip
down and the right part of the blue line would dip up. That's really good
situational awareness. If you're staring at the MFD and you want to know if your
aircraft is in the bank or not, you can go and look at that. That's kind of
important. Let's start from the top. Some of this stuff is weapon critical, so
I'm not going to really talk about it that much. CRM is basically your main mode
in the air-to-air FCR. You don't really need to switch it then. You should see a
button that corresponds with RWS. If you click that, you'll get a bunch of
different modes like RWS, ULS, TWS, VSR. Those are different radar modes. We'll
explain them tomorrow. To the right of that is norm. This button is really
important because it allows you to do something called expand the radar scope.
Think of expand as the same as zooming in. If you click the button that
corresponds with norm, you'll notice that a blue box appears in the middle of
the MFD or wherever your cursors are. That basically represents that you have
literally zoomed in on that picture. It's really useful for locking up a really
close formation. It's like a giant spam of yellow. You'll see probably tomorrow
there's just a bunch of yellow stuff. If you click expand, it'll help you get
better resolution on what's going on. To the right, OVRD, it simply means
override. You can click it and then click it back. That basically turns off your
radar temporarily. Control is a control page for the FCR. We're not teaching any
of that today. To the left, I should start to the right. Most of you guys,
unless you're hosting data link, which should only be the leads, should see
ASSN. That basically means that ASGN. That basically means it's called a sign.
This button is solely reflective of data link. You pretty much, unless you're
leading a flight or in trouble, you really don't need to be screwing around with
this. If, for instance, we ask any of you to host data link, you need to put
this into sign code continuous or CONT. That basically means the data link
information will constantly be traveling. A sign just means it'll only happen if
a certain button press is committed. It's really important you put it in CONT
for continuous. It's not critical. If you're hosting data link, you're pretty
much the leader of the flight. Anybody else, you don't need to screw with it.
Below that, you should see four buttons, one, two, three, and four. These are
used to transmit air-to-air data link targets. We'll go into it tomorrow.
Basically, all you do is lock up target using this FCR and you click any one of
those corresponding buttons and you will send the range and altitude of a
contact to the corresponding member of the flight, one being lead, two being
lead's wingman, three being the element lead, and four being the wingman of the
element lead. Okay. Now, at the bottom, there should be DCLT. Don't click this
button. It's just a clutter, but it really is pretty worthless. Now, you should
have, depending on your data cartridges, you should have a bunch of, for me,
it's like DTE and TESS. That's how I like to set it up, but you should have a
bunch of other different types of pages. If you click TESS or if you click any
kind of page that you have to the right of the FCR button that are basically
bringing up different pages in the FCR. I'm not going to cover any of the other
pages because we're short on time and I want you guys in the air, but that's
basically every button besides swap and the clutter, the middle three buttons on
the bottom of this left MFD simply activate different pages of the left MFD.
That's how you cycle through the different pages. Okay. So on the left part of
the left MFD, the left sets of buttons in the bottom, the most bottom button,
not the words as brightness, don't screw around with that, but the one above
that, that doesn't do anything. The two buttons that are above that bottom one,
so button number two and number three, referencing going from bottom to up,
those simply screw around with your antenna angles and elevations. Okay. Don't
be screwing around with these. Just leave them at four and six respectively.
Just put them at four and six. That's really important. The last part of the
left MFD is the range. How do you expand the FCR so it covers more range or less
range? Okay. And these are probably the most used buttons on left FCR unless
you're changing radar modes. Okay. Basically what you do, I'm talking about the
upper two buttons in the left part on the left side of the left MFD. My default
should say four, zero, and then two arrows and click the button that corresponds
to the upper arrow, you'll notice that the radar will expand to 80 miles. If you
click it again, it'll go to 160. If you click it down, for instance, increase
back to 40, then it'll go to 20, 10. Okay. This is not increasing the range of
your radar. Okay. What it's doing is it's allowing you to look at distances.
It's like basically zooming in or zooming out. The radar energy is going to go
100 miles plus at every second pretty much. You're not controlling the range of
the radar. You're simply expanding the scope of your radar. This is kind of
important, but if you move your, I don't know how your HODAs are set up. It
should be either a cursor for me. It's my arrow keys. If you move the arrow keys
around, you'll notice those two parallel bars on the left FCR will move around
corresponding to the moving of your cursor or your arrow keys. You'll see two
numbers. One is in white. One is in red. That's basically telling you every you
move those cursors. Okay. The top number means that that's the highest altitude
that you're scanning. For me, it's like if I move at, let's just set my left FCR
to 40 miles scope. Okay. I'm going to move the cursors to the middle of the FCR.
The top number should read 11. The bottom one should be minus 11. So basically
at that resolution or scope, I'm scanning 11,000 high, 11,000 feet, and 11,000
into the ground. But as Krel said, that's more weapon-related stuff. Let's go to
the right MFD, the HSD. This basically is a God's eye view or a bird's eye view
of the space around you. Okay. You have a bunch of rings that's around you, and
those are reflective of different range values being 15 miles. Okay. And in
those blue and green text, those are simply flights that are in data link. Okay.
The biggest thing I want to show, this is like, think of this as probably like
the most critical navigation thing that you have, because not only does it
incorporate the flight plan, but it incorporates a position of others, including
contacts. Like if you lock something up, it'll show on the screen. So it's
really important. And another thing I want to mention, if you move your arrow
keys around or your cursors, you'll notice that the screen, the blue will move.
And that's basically the blue gates are basically the azimuth limits of your
radar. That's kind of important. So your FCR and HSD are directly connected.
Similarly, how we can expand the scope of the FCR, you can expand the scope of
the HSD. So if you go to the upper left, the only two buttons you need to know
on the HSD are the range buttons. And just like the radar, it doesn't really do
anything. It just expands or contracts the scope of the HSD image. You can also
call up the bullseye of the cursor positions, not only on the FCR. It's six
digits in the bottom left, but on the HSD as well. That's pretty much all I have
to say about those two functions. That's pretty much all we need to cover for
today. All right. So now we're going to actually get in the air, finally. Go
take a piss and be back in two minutes. Great, great. Cross, got a question for
you. This is Fletcher, over. What's up? I need to get out of here with you two
real life in about one eight minutes. Should I stick with you for the first part
of the air work or bail out now so you don't have an airplane taking over in
flight? Yeah, you can stick around. Copy. I'll just be bailing out at 120 N
standard. Copy that. I'm going to go take a piss. I'll be back in two minutes.
Copy. Thank you. Hey, what's going on? Force. What's up? What's up? Uh, who is
this? I keep it. How's it going? You guys fly yet? No, we're not in the area.
We've been going over to the cockpit for like the last hour. Oh, that's just.
That's always fun. Does anybody have a question? Yeah, any question? I'm kind of
stuck inside another person's plane. I don't know if that's just me. I think
you're stuck in my plane, but that doesn't, doesn't need to worry you too much.
Once I get moving, you will be free of my plane. Then you can taxi. I'm just
trying to make sure it won't blow up. No, no, you won't explode anything. Okay,
that's good. Hey, Force. Yep. Did the cops get you? Yeah, man, I'm a colleague.
I saw like it here while she was talking in the background, just sirens. I was
like, oh shit. They're on to him. All right. Just a hornet here. All right. I'll
give it about a minute. Then we'll go. Okay. Okay. What kind of plan are you
guys doing? Okay. Everybody who's here, rough and steer too. They don't know how
to do that. If you're here, if you're here, press S on your keyboard and that
will select steer point two and then it will say STP two on your DED. And you
can also change your points by clicking the up and down arrows on your ICP on
the bottom left of the ICP. Hey Krauss, I'm in between the two flights. Do you
want me to move out of the way? No, it's fine. We're all just going to take off
another clusterfuck. No, you make sure you get another picture then. Okay,
Honda, are you here? No, we're not doing pictures. We don't have time for that.
Honda, are you here? Yeah, I just got back from taking a piss. Hornet? All
right, whatever. Who else is? How do you check the player list? Alto. Fletcher?
Copy. Is Beardo here? Yeah, I'm here. Okay. I think that's everyone. All right.
So what we're going to do now is we're going to take off and we're going to go
over some very basic navigation shit. So before we take off, a general note,
okay? We just went over sensors and we just went over all this shit in your
cockpit for like an hour, okay? But I hate to say this, but it doesn't really
matter. The most thing, the thing that really matters the most is using your
eyes. And I'm going to stress this again and again. There's the biggest problems
I see with noobs is they don't look outside their cockpit enough and they wind
up smashing into people or they just don't understand where they are in relation
to the earth and stuff like that. So I'm just making a general note here that
your eyes are the most valuable sensor you have. It's way more important and way
more valuable than both the FCR and the HSD. It's way more valuable than any
instrument you have. That being said, your analog controls are actually more
valuable than your eyes. So if you're really disoriented, go to the analog
controls. But bottom line is use your eyes. Okay. Another thing is when you get
airborne, and we're not going to really be able to do this today because you
guys are new and you're going to be oblivious, but generally speaking, when you
get airborne, your job is to stay with your wingman. Your job is not to fly.
You're not supposed to navigate at all. Your job is just to get with your
wingman. That's your job. So if there's a flight plan, it's irrelevant. You get
to where your wingman is and you fly on his wing. Okay. So now what we're going
to do is we're going to taxi to the runway and we're going to take off. And
normally when you do this, you would ask for permission to take off and stuff
like that, but we're not going to do that. We're just going to take off. So what
I want everyone to do is I want you to take your parking brake off by putting it
into a down position. And again, the parking brake switch is on the left side of
your left knee. It's right to the bottom left of your wheel lights. Put the
parking brake into a down position. Okay. Now, if at any time during this entire
process, you feel like you're going to smash into someone, hold down the Kelo
key, K key, okay? Hold down the Kelo key if at any time you feel like you're
going to smash into someone. Okay. What we're going to do is we're going to pump
the throttle up and then we're going to bring it back down until we're on about
75% RPMs. So you're going to use your RPM gauge on the right side of your right
MFD. You're going to pump the throttle forward and then bring it back down to
75. If you're going too fast, just again, hold down the brake key. Okay. And
we're just going to, I'm rolling right now. We're just going to slowly roll out.
We're going to move to the beginning of the runway and then I'm going to walk
you guys through how to take off. And if you feel like you're picking up too
much speed, hold down the brake key and just put your throttle to idle. Quest,
do you want to do like the do little raid stuff or we just like all pile on the
runway? I don't think we have time for that. I mean, we're already way behind
schedule. Okay. So this is basically follow your leader right now. We're going
to take off one at a time this way. No one has any worries about smashing into
anyone. Very simple. So I'm going to take off and you guys watch me. You're
going to see me on the runway in a moment and just watch me as I take off and
you'll see what I'm doing. Okay. What's up? What just happened to three two?
Okay. So this is what you're going to do now. Okay. You're going to line up your
aircraft. Did you go over the meatball for us? Yeah. A flight path marker is
behind the heading readout. Okay. So you went over like what the meatball is and
everything, like what it does. Very briefly, but go over it again. So listen, so
there is a circle with like lines coming out of it representing your aircraft on
your HUD. Okay. Right now it's overlapping the heading of whatever heading
you're at, but that's going to represent where your nose is going to be leading.
Okay. So when you take off, what you want to do is you want to taxi onto the
runway and then line up the meatball on the end of the runway. Okay. Once it's
lined up on the end of the runway, you're going to want to turn your nose wheel
steering off. The nose wheel steering is what's letting you move around like a
car. Okay. But it's not, if you keep that on, when you're taking off, you're
going to smash, you're going to break your gear or you might bottom out or
horrible things could happen. So once you line up, you're going to turn your
nose wheel steering off by pressing shift forward slash. Okay. And when you do
that, you're going to see that the AR NWS light on the right side of your HUD is
going to go blank. It's no longer going to be lit up. So now your nose wheel
steering is off. Okay. NWS is off, you're lined up. Now what you're going to do
is you're going to hold down your brake key. You're going to bring up your
throttle to about 85%, 90%. You're going to let the engine warm up and then
you're going to let go of the brake key. Okay. You're going to start rolling.
Okay. Once you pick up some speed, once the engine's going, then you're going to
full burn. You're going to put the throttle on max. Okay. If you start going off
the runway for whatever reason, you're going to use your rudder. You can use the
rudder with that nose wheel steering. It's just less sensitive. Okay. Once you
reach about 180 to 190 knots, you're going to pull up hard on the stick and then
you're going to level off at 10 degrees nose up. You'll see the meatball
floating around on your HUD. You're going to level off at about 10 degrees nose
up and then you're going to come out of the burn when you're at 350. Okay. So
you're going to hear your burner on, your RPMs are going to be, your nozzle
gauge is going to be up and all that shit. Once, once you're at 350, you'll see
your airspeed on the left side of the HUD, then you come out of the burn. Oh,
one very important note that I did not mention, which is extremely important is
you have to raise your landing gear when you take off. Okay. So once you're
airborne, raise your landing gear by pressing G. If you don't do that and you go
about 300 knots, your landing gear will rip off. Okay. So now what I want you
guys to do is I just want you to take off one at a time. Uh, don't worry about,
uh, anything else but taking off. And if you have any questions, just ask. Okay.
Okay. When you're airborne, just basically go out on a straight heading. I saw
someone just got airborne. And when you're airborne, just say your name, please.
Fletcher. That's right. Force is in there. Make sure you guys that come out of
burn at 350 knots, just go to like 105% throttle, no burn. Okay. I'm taking off.
You don't know where you're going. Just fly, uh, orbits around the air base.
Just stay, just stay straight. I'm going to go over the, you can see people in
the HSA. Just stay on the street. Is everyone airborne? Not one more. Okay. For
those that are airborne, now you can see on your HSD, put it on like 15 miles or
so. And so you can change the range on the HSD on the top left, the top left
buttons, up and down arrows. Um, you can see, you can clearly see the people in
your flight now. You see how we're separated now. We're no longer this mash
that's on the grounds. Did anyone not see that? You see how like, you know, one,
two, three, and four, then you see the other flights are in green. All right,
welcome to the site. Anyone not see that in the HSE? You know what? So your
plane's in the middle and then the other aircraft, their call sign is the top
number. Someone just fucked up the data. Like, hold on. Okay. Their call sign is
the top number and their altitude is the bottom number. Everyone see that? My,
uh, nevermind. It's back. Okay. So now what we're going to go over is we're
going to go over basically how to fly on the flight plan. So right now there's a
flight plan. Okay. And, uh, we're just going to go over the meatball a little
bit, uh, before we do that. So now you can see what I was talking about before.
You see the fat oval with the lines coming out of it. That's indicating where
your nose is heading. Okay. So for instance, if that meatball, if that circle
with the lens coming out of it, flight path marker meatball, or whatever you
want to call it is on, if it's on the five degree, like hash above the
artificial horizon, that means that you're going five degrees nose up. Okay. If
it's on the horizon, it means you're going level. If it's below that on five
degrees, it means you're going down five degrees. Okay. Um, now there's another,
uh, symbol on the HUD and that is the, uh, that is the, um, carrot or not the
carrot, the f*****g tadpole. Okay. It's a little circle with a line coming
vertically out of it. Okay. Or it might be down below as well, but it's a little
circle with a line coming out of it. Okay. Now you're flying on the right
course. In other words, you're navigating correctly when that meatball is on top
of that, is on top of that little tadpole. So for instance, the guys in my
flight, uh, what you probably see is you probably see the tadpole all the way on
the right side of your HUD. Okay. And so what you need to do is you need to turn
to the right. So go ahead and just turn right. Okay. Until the meatball is on
top of that tadpole. So the big circle with the three lines coming out of it
needs to be on top of the little circle with the one line coming out of it and
that will put you on course. And you'll see that once they overlap, that means
that you're, you're on course. Anyone lost anyone not know what I'm talking
about? Krause, this is three, four. Should we stay with our wingman or apply the
tadpole? You can, if you can, but if you can't just, we're just going over
navigation for now. We're going to go over the formation in a sec. Copy. So
yeah, does anyone, anyone again, does anyone not understand anything that I've
gone over so far about navigation? Okay. Forrest, did you want to do a bit about
like general flight or should we go on to formations? Um, yes. So really, really
quickly guys, there's a couple of air speeds. There's a couple things you need
to remember. One of them is airspeed. Okay. You need to make sure that you're
flying at any given situation above 300 knots. Okay. Otherwise you're, you'll
still be able to fly. It's not like you're going to stall, but it's really
important that you have, you know, a lot of speed, especially in combat. Um,
really quick, take a look at your HUDs guys. You notice the information I was
talking about. Remember the six X's that you should see six, uh, you should see
six numbers in there. You should see a bunch of ranges. It's here too. Uh, you
should see all the data that I mentioned that should be visible now, but, uh,
that's all I have to say. Roger that. Okay. So now we're going to do is we're
going to try to fly information. Okay. So the blue guys on your HSD, well, first
thing for a zoom in as far as possible as you can on the HSD and just so you can
still see other aircraft that are nearby. So it should probably be like 15 miles
or maybe eight miles. Okay. So the idea when you fly information is, all right,
so you always going to want to be information and the default formation is going
to be a finger four and a finger four is pretty much like, well, it is what it
is at the finger four. So if you raise your right hand, it's, and you spread out
your fingers or you put your fingers together in a fan, then it's basically the
formation is that except without your thumb. So the, the middle finger is the
lead and the, uh, left finger or the, uh, in our pointer finger is the, uh,
number two and the pinky is number four and the one's a little left of that is,
uh, number three. Okay. So basically like a wedge and Arma and Arma. Okay. So
number two is on the left side of the wedge. Um, so what you want to do is when
you fly information, you won't, you always want to go off of your wingman. So
for instance, like I see number two behind me, number two is about five miles
behind me and I'm to his 11 o'clock. So what he would need to do is he would
need to increase speed a little bit. It doesn't need to go crazy. We need to
increase speed a little bit and get to my, he needs to be so I'm at his two
o'clock and, uh, within visual range. Okay. And, uh, this is something that
takes practice. I'm not expecting you guys to just immediately be able to fly
information and shit like that, but, um, that's the idea is like, uh, you want
to get to be in formation and if, and if the flight lead doesn't say anything,
then just assume it's a finger four. Okay. It's, it'll fall formation is finger
four. So if it, if it isn't a finger for the flight, we'll say like, go trail or
whatever, go box or whatever. Okay. So who's the number two in my flight? Is it
hornet? You see, do you see me on the HST? Should say one and then, uh, with a
20 under it. Okay. The first number, the top number is your call sign, the
bottom number is altitude. Now, if you turn to your 10 o'clock, uh, you're
pretty close to me. So you should be able to see me. I have my smoke on, so you
should see a smoke trail behind me. Um, just visually look to your 10 o'clock.
I'm about, uh, I'm about three miles to your 10 o'clock. So you need to be, if
we were in a figure four, you need to be, um, off of my, you need to be to my
left behind me. So I'm at your two o'clock. Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay.
Uh, there's a guy, the guy in front of you who also has smoke on that forest,
but I'm to your 10 o'clock or 11 o'clock now. I'm going to hold three, three,
zero knots. Yeah. I'm going to slow down. So break, break. Uh, this is Fletcher.
I have to disconnect for real life. I'm just going to exit the game. Thank you
very much. Very informative guys. Okay. So let's try to get into a wedge if we
can. Who's number three? Beardos. Beardos number three. Okay. So got, uh, my
flight check left to, uh, steer. Okay. So press S and change your steer point to
three. And then I say check left. That means basically turn left. So you're
intercepting steer three. So put the meatball on top of the carrot. I mean, uh,
the tadpole. Okay. So can, can beardo and corner, can you guys visually see me
right now? Yeah, you're on. I'm on the other flight. Yep. Gotcha. The other
flights are three o'clock and we're going a little bit faster than that. That's
fine. So you guys are pretty much information right now. Uh, three, you need to
pull it in a little bit and then it'd be perfect. And, uh, now force can get his
shit square away. Yeah. Uh, she's like, I don't really care about you. Um, yeah,
like just get you from, I already on my wing. I think, yep. Um, Honda, you're
number two, correct? That's correct. Okay. And I got onion for number three.
Who's on him? Who's called sons? Any? Okay. Do you, anybody use my number three?
This is newcomer. I think you're number three. Okay. Newcomer, you're my number
three. Okay. Guys reference to three, use the data link, three, three, zero
knots. So that's, I'm just going to find a nice and straight story. Um, as Carl
said, finger four is basically, uh, like a wedge, but it's heavy on the right.
So four flies, um, P if you like, you say you hold up your fit, your index,
middle finger, ring finger, and your pinky. Yeah. That's what it looks like in
your right hand. Um, two, you need to increase speed. And okay. I see you back
there. You do see me. My scope on. Yes. Cool. Okay. That's, that's perfect.
Right where you're at. Just about right there. Um, newcomer, do you see me?
Yeah, I'm coming up to you. Copy. I'll just hold this, hold the speed, speed and
the heading. Uh, one thing that's important to know guys is sometimes we won't
reference their points in our navigation. Like the lead will tell you to
reference a certain heading. Um, and the way we do that, if you remember, as we
look at the rectangle at the middle of the HUD is the heading of your aircraft.
For instance, I'll say this flight, like my flight, which is, um, new gum, Honda
and Stefan just reference heading zero six zero. So that kind of, it's closest
or three, but not really. It's kind of a important skill to have is just
reference compass variance. Okay. So ideally when you're flying information, you
want to be within two miles of everyone. And ideally it's like one, well, for a
wedge, it's like 2000 feet, but I don't expect you guys to do that, but try to
be a little bit closer. Try to get within like a mile. And, uh, I know it's hard
to judge like distances at this point, but try to get it. So you can, if you
wanted to, you could speed up and smash into me pretty much. That's a good, uh,
a good way to know if you're in formation as if you, I mean, if, if I can give
you the finger and you'd be able to see it, then you're in a good space. Thank
you very much. Can you come that you just dropped in on me? Yeah, I'm coming up.
I'm for, okay. So you're over thinking me. Okay. So, um, one of the best things
I could recommend for formation flying is easy on the controls. Like, see, I see
what you're doing. Jesus. I perfectly. Hey, you're flying a little
automatically. You need to be smoother on the controls. Just nice. I think
that's, um, yeah. Who's the guy who just like, that's me. Okay. Okay. Are you,
yeah, you're not even in my flight, but, uh, no, no. Newcombe, uh, do you see
where I am with my smoke? Yeah, I just don't want to get it. Do I see you? Okay.
So great. I just dropped back a little bit and you'll be good. And for, I see as
well. Yeah. And by the way, the way, you know, if you're going the right speed
is if they appear motionless on your, in your view, then that means you're going
the same speed. And if they're going away from you, they're going faster. If
they're going towards you, then you're going faster than them. So that's how you
gauge it. And there's more precise ways to know if you're going the right speed.
Like for instance, you can lock them up on the radar. It will actually tell you
what their airspeed is and your closure rate and stuff like that. I wasn't going
to go over that this flight, but, uh, that is something you can do. And, uh,
another thing is, um, you can, if you slow down there, beard up. Yeah, I got my
big song. Another thing is, um, if you're coming on too quick, just, just lower
the throttle, make like slight inputs. Okay. Don't, don't go crazy. Like right
now I'm going three, six, zero knots. And if I wanted to slow down, I wouldn't
kill my throttle. I just slowed a bit. It's better to gain altitude. If you pull
up, um, and lower your throttle, you'll kill your speed really, really quick,
much quicker than putting on brakes or something like that. Um, another thing is
you can padlock view. Okay. There's this feature in BMS called padlocking. It
lets you like snap on the targets that you're approximately looking at. So for
instance, if you look at me using your 3d view, and then you press four, uh,
you'll, you'll snap onto me. Your view will snap onto me. And that's a good way.
Like, if you know the approximate position, like for instance, um, let's see
here. Okay. Living hornet, he's a, it's a living hornet. He's, he's right now,
he's to my, um, eight o'clock. Okay. So I'm to his two o'clock. If he wanted, if
he didn't, if he didn't visually see me, but he wanted to visually see me, he
could look to his two o'clock and then just press four and it would likely snap
onto me. And the way that he would know if he's looking at the right direction,
um, is from like the HSD. So he'd see where I am on the HSD and then he would,
you know, turn his head and then press padlock. Okay. And, um, like there's
other ways, like I said, you can, we're going to go into this tomorrow, but you
can, if you lock someone up, it will also tell you the closure rate and their
air speed. So that will give you the exact speed. And eventually, once you're
really, once you're good, like once you really know your shit, um, you're not
going to need to lock them up at all. And you'll just be able to fly visually,
which is what I do. And I'm sure force does as well, but until, until you're at
that point, just try to use your sensors and stuff. And again, the HSD is so
invaluable, especially if you expand it. Um, the more extended the HSD is, the
more, uh, good information it will give you and you can see everyone else. Um,
one, let's add before we go to the next formation, I want to make sure, um, so
Nukum, where are you relative to me? I can't see you. I'm right behind you, I
think, but Death Strike is a human behind him. I'm not with you anymore. I'm
with your guy. He's on his own over here. Okay. I see. I see you. Good job,
Nukum. And Stefan, you just, where were you at? I'm at your five o'clock. Copy.
Oh, so this is crazy, Steph. Okay. Yeah. Stefan go. Finger four, we go on like
four o'clock off. Uh, number three. Should I be on the left or right? It should
be on the right. Okay. That's where I'm at. My flight reference is here four and
check left is here four. Okay. Nukum, that's perfect. You hold it right there.
Exactly where you need to be. Okay. Uh, Kraus, we're good. Yeah. So, I mean, so
does everyone understand the basic concept of how you stay in formation? Does
anyone not understand that the concept of staying in formation or have any
questions? So like this is 90% of the game. Like I can't stress this enough. If
you're in formation, then like, if you're not going to be in formation, then it
lowers the combat effectiveness of the flight, but like 80% pretty much because
it puts people in positions where they're not designed to be and it endangers
everyone. So really focus on the fundamentals. Like it looks like we've gone
over some really basic stuff today. It almost seems pedantic at some points.
Like it seems like it's almost just hot air. I guarantee you, if you, if you go
over the basics that we went over today, you will be a way better pilot. I know
people that fly with us in UOAF that can't do formations, and they've been
flying with us for like months. So it just understand the importance of
formations. I mean, I think we're pretty much done for today. We're, we're about
45 minutes over time. We could go over the other formations, but it's all the
same concept is just stay with, stay information relative to your flight lead or
to your element leader. So if you're number four, stay information relative to
number three. If you're number one, stay information relative to number two. If
you're number two, stay information relative to number one, et cetera. So, I
mean, of course, I mean, that's, we can go over the formations, but we're sort
of behind time as it is. Yeah. You want to just everybody RTB and see who can
land? I want to murder these guys, actually, so that's what I plan on doing.
Okay. Landing's easy. Unless your eyes work. Oh, fancy there. Stephans, this is
how you fly formation. Fox two. So just a quick question. What is the max G's
that you'll pull before you start breaking things? Well, it's five G's in cat
one. So yeah, if you guys know how to use your weapons, might as well try now.
This is a precursor for. What do we have? Do we have two A mines or something?
Fuck. See Sarah came move and another quote behind you. Very good group. Hi and
welcome to another Falcon 4 BMS tutorial. In this tutorial we're going to be
going over the threats that you will encounter in BMS and Falcon 4. The biggest
challenge for beginners is defending against these threats. And many can use the
systems of the F-16, they can use the avionics, but few can defend against
threats and they tend to die horribly. This video is going to cover how to
defeat the common threats that you will encounter in BMS. So what are the sort
of threats that you're going to run into in BMS? First you have your anti-
aircraft artillery, commonly referred to as AAA, and that's defeated by jinking
vertically. Second you're going to have your radar guided missiles and they're
defeated by maneuvers and by deploying little bundles of metal called chaff.
Third you have your heat or infrared guidance.
 missiles and they're defeated by flares and maneuvers. Lastly you're going to
have your direct ground fire and the deadliest is going to come from self
propelled AAA platforms such as the ZSU-2324 Shilka and the SA-19 Tunguska and
they're defeated by avoidance of the weapon envelope and jinking. Before we
proceed we do need to mention one more defense of the F-16 commonly has and that
is the jammer pod. The jammer is a pod that is usually attached to the
centerline of the wing that will decrease the max effective range of enemy radar
emitters. So it won't make a missile lose its lock on you but what it will force
enemy aircraft to do is to get closer to you in order to employ that weapon and
the same goes for SAMs. You can get closer to SAMs when you have a jammer on and
their max effective engagement range on you will be reduced. So let's start with
the AAA which is perhaps the most common threat you will encounter in BMS. The
concept behind AAA goes like this. Someone spots you either by radar or by
optical means and then the rounds leave the gun and then they have a
predetermined time of flight then they burst to form a broad planar pattern.
Imagine a plate of fire in the sky which changes position every 10 seconds or
so. Optically guided AAA will bead onto your position more slowly, in other
words it will track onto you more slowly, while radar guided AAA will do so
rapidly. You'll know if it's radar guided if a fire can radar is locking you up
on your RWR, radar warning receiver, and it's represented by a flashing S and an
A while in search mode and a solid A when tracking and firing. So how do you
avoid it? Well first if you're above 30,000 feet you typically won't be engaged.
If you are engaged, in other words if you see these explosions all around your
jet, you need to change your vertical position frequently and quickly, in other
words zinc, in order to avoid the immediate effects of the fire and then burn
out of the weapons envelope. If the AAA is especially heavy you can decrease
altitude to less than 2,000 feet above terrain level which represents the
minimum engagement range of the guns, but do take caution in that doing so will
expose you to a wide range of short-range air defenses such as man- pads and the
aforementioned Shilkas. Okay so we're now in game and I'm going to show you guys
how to defend AAA in real time. Now I have a AAA site to my 12 o'clock defending
an airbase. Normally you wouldn't know that AAA was there and if you could you
would try to avoid it, but in this scenario I'm going to fly directly into the
AAA so it fires on me. This way I can show you how to defend against it. Okay
and I'm in a aircraft that has like a typical seed loadout. It has two harms,
two CBUs and some air to air ordnance and a centerline jammer. And again if you
were to turn your jammer on it would take the AAA radar longer to lock on to you
than if your jammer was off. Okay and how do you know if the jammer is on is
this little there's a little light here. It says ECM and there's a little light
under it and when you press the Juliet key on your keyboard that is J it turns
the jammer on. Okay now I'm getting spiked by it. It's in an active mode and
it's either firing on me right now or it's about to fire. We'll see splashes in
a moment all around my jet. Again you would not be flying into a AAA battalion
such as like this. This is very stupid behavior. Turn my jammer off so it fires
at me. Okay now I'm gonna start jinking vertically. So that fire I'm in the burn
right now and I'm jinking vertically. Okay it's changing my altitude changing my
altitude quickly and if the AAA is really heavy you might have to dive down
below 2,000 feet. Okay this isn't that heavy. Jinking in the vertical pulling up
pulling down and you can do a little horizontal jink as well but not that much
not necessary. Okay so deploy some chaff and that will throw the radar off. You
can see the explosions around me. Almost out of the almost out of the max range
of the artillery. Almost out of the RWR. Keep jinking. Almost out of it. Every
time you jink you know trade a little more altitude up or down. Don't make it a
repeatable pattern otherwise you're gonna get hit. Okay. Almost out. Chaff flare
low. Now we're out of the threat circle. Next we are going to cover radar guided
missiles. The basic concept behind a radar guided threat is that a radar is
illuminating your aircraft and directing a missile towards it. I don't want to
get too far into depth on the different types of radar tracking but for the most
part and for many of the threats you will encounter in BMS, deploying chaff,
changing aspect, and obstructing line of sight between the radar and yourself by
terrain or obstacle masking will render radar guided missiles ballistic.
Missiles can be guided by semi-active or active guidance. Semi-active missiles
must have the target continuously illuminated by the emitter in order to hit the
target while active missiles contain their own radar suites which allow them to
track targets autonomously of the guidance of the emitter. Semi-active missiles
are the overwhelming majority in BMS and include the AIM-7 Sparrow, the AA-10
Alamo, and the SA-2 through the SA-6. Active missiles include the AIM-120 AMRAAM
and the R-77 Adder and some of the newest SIMs from the SA-10 family are also
fully active. Some missiles may not be defeated by mere aspect change, masking
or chaff, and need to be defeated by maneuvering so as to either one, bleed off
their energy and this is known as dragging, dragging a missile, or two,
kinetically defeat the missile by forcing it into an impossible intercept
solution. You should always assume that a missile is going to actively track on
you and is going to hit you when you detect the launch and defend accordingly. I
can't stress this enough, just because chaff will usually confuse a missile and
cause it to break its lock, you should always treat the missile as if it's going
to hit you. Also note that killing the emitter on semi-active missile launches
will render the missile harmlessly ballistic. In the case of air-to-air
missiles, this means killing the aircraft and in the case of SAMs, it means
destroying the targeting radar. So now we're back in game and we're going to go
over one of the most common scenarios that you're going to run across with
flying BMS and that's having an AA-10 Alamo missile fire to you. The AA-10 Alamo
is a radar-guided medium-range semi-active missile that is commonly carried by
the MiG-29 but is also carried by other enemy aircrafts. The Alamo's effective
range out actually out ranges the aim ramp significantly, but in reality most
engagements against the MiG-29 using this missile will be within visual range
and that is because the jammer is very effective against the MiG-29's targeting
radar. So before we go over the technique for defending against such a threat,
we're going to go over positioning. So ideally when you're engaging and
defending against a MiG-29 or another threat in the same class, you want to keep
the threat on the beam. The beam position is to your 10 o'clock where he is
right now or your 2 o'clock and by keeping the contact at your 10 o'clock or 2
o'clock also known as beaming, that allows you to create the most lateral
separation and tactical options between yourself and the target. So for instance
if he was at my 12 o'clock, he was flying directly towards me, then he'd be
closing on me at a much higher rate than he would if he were attacking from my
10 o'clock and the missile, if you were to fire a missile from my 12 o'clock,
it'd be much more deadly than if he fired it from my 10 o'clock. So another
concept is that when we actually go defensive and we defend against the missile
launch, I want this 29, I want the enemy MiG to be behind my 39 line and you can
imagine the 39 line if you consider the RWR to be a clock, okay? This would be
the 3 o'clock position, this would be the 9 o'clock position. We want this 29 in
the rear quadrant of the RWR and when we go a little bit further in the tutorial
and we're actually defending against active missiles, we want the M in the rear
quadrant of the RWR, okay? If a contact is in front of the 39 line, then it's
posing a significant threat. Now that being said, let's go over the technique
for what we're gonna do. I'm gonna approach this MiG on the beam, I'm gonna have
my jammer off, this way he actually fires at me and doesn't wait, you know, he
doesn't wait to get within about five miles and once he fires at me, I'm gonna
do a split S, I'm gonna burn and deploy chaff, okay? And as I gain speed and I
dive, I'm gonna start weaving a bit, which is gonna make the missile maneuver
against me and eventually I'm gonna pull up and the reason why we're doing that
is I want to get low, I want to get low, this way the missile burns up more of
its energy trying to track me and you finally pull up at the end of the defense
because if the missile's still tracking you, which is unlikely with the Alamo
but it's very likely with an adder, you want to pull up to make it burn off the
last of its energy. So again, I'm gonna dive, pop chaff, I'm gonna beam away
from the target or where I think the missile is coming from and then I'm gonna
pull up at the very end when I believe the missile is almost out of fuel and
that will cause it to fully burn out of fuel. Chaff Lair, low. Chaff Lair. Chaff
Lair. Pull up. Pull up. Chaff Lair. Chaff Lair. Pull up. Before we move on to
the next part, I just want to say that the same defense that we use against the
Alamo can be used against other medium-range semi-active missiles. There's a
whole family of semi-active missiles that can be carried by the enemy air force.
If you get a missile launch tone on your RWR, then 9 times out of 10 it's a
semi-active radar guided missile. Just treat it the same way you would an Alamo.
That being said, the next thing we're going to go over is the R-77 Adder, also
known as the AA-12. This is arguably the deadliest threat you'll ever come up
against, and it's carried by the Su-27, the MiG-29S, and the Su-30. The R-77 is
an active medium-range radar missile that is extremely fast, extremely
maneuverable, and extremely resistant to chaff and ECM. Now we're going to use
essentially the same strategy that we used against the Alamo, except this time
we're not going to know when his missile is actually fired. We won't know that
because the way that the Adder works is it's guided passively by the MiG until
it goes into a pitbull or active state, just like the AMRAAM, and then, and only
then will you be alerted that it's locked onto you. So because of that, whenever
we get hard locked and we know that he's within range to fire at us, we're going
to assume that he's already fired at us. Okay? And normally what you would do
is, is if you were trying to kill this MiG, you would fire a Fox 3 Long at him
when you're just within max range using your AMRAAM, then you'd notch away from
him and then go defensive. Now, I'm going to do that in this example, and I
might kill him, and if I kill him, then the next time I'll do it, I'll just redo
it and let him, I'll make sure that he fires on me by just flying into him a
little longer. But the idea here is that, you know, I'm going to put him on the
beam. Once I'm in max range, I'm going to fire at him, notch away, then do a
split S after a few seconds, burn, drop altitude, gain as much speed as
possible. And during this entire time, I'm going to be burning because you need
as much speed as possible to defeat the Adder. And we'll know once it's become
active when we get an M on our RWR. And then what we're going to do is, we're
going to weave so it's on the beam, so it burns up as much energy as possible at
the lowest altitude possible. And then hopefully, it will burn up with energy.
We can pull up, finish it off, and get back into the fight. That being said,
let's go ahead and unpause the game. Flare, cap, flare, cap, flare, cap, flare,
cap, flare, cap, flare, cap, flare, player. Chat player. Chat player. Chat
player. Chat player. You would need to pull more Gs than your airframe and body
would allow in order to dodge an R77 adder for instance. Each SAM has different
characteristics and I would highly recommend checking out the Falcon 4 Threat
Guide PDF in the video description. Regardless, if the SAM fires at max range,
it can typically be defeated by simply turning and popping chaff. The SA-2
through the SA-6 are also very susceptible to aspect changes, ECM and chaff.
Many times a track will be lost just from doing a 4G turn away from the emitter
and popping chaff. This doesn't require an in-depth demonstration, but I will
show you how to kinetically defeat a SAM for instances in which you cannot drag
or simply just turn away from a SAM threat. And keep in mind that the deadliest
SAMs, I would say an SA-6 and above, are deadly enough that you can't simply
turn away from them. You have to deal with them in some other manner, which
involves kinetically defeating those missiles. So how do you kinetically defeat
a SAM? First you're going to put it on your beam. This will allow you to
visually acquire the missile as it launches and to create enough space to react
to it. Visual acquisition of the missile is absolutely essential. Failure to
spot the missile will result in death, especially at close ranges. Look around
for large plumes of smoke on the ground and smoke trails rising up from it. And
if in doubt, try using your padlock key, which is 4 on the keyboard. Step one
when engaged by a SAM is always to find it with the Mark I eyeball. And this is
less important when it's engaging you at long range, as we saw before with the
SA-2 defense. Wait for it to fly pursuit on you or intercept it yourself,
depending on the tactical situation. And then a few seconds before it is about
to hit you, perform a high G break away from the missile path so that it cannot
correct onto you. Employ a large amount of chaff as you break away. The missile
should pass over you and then go ballistic. The missile should go ballistic. The
missile should go ballistic. Chaff layer. Chaff layer. Chaff layer. The missile
should go ballistic. So we now have three tools in our toolset. Dragging a
missile to render it powerless, performing a sustained turn to defeat long-range
launches, and kinetically breaking into a missile's path to force it off course.
But that's not all. There's two more common tools for radar SAM defense. Masking
and exiting the weapon envelope. The first involves using terrain and obstacles
to block line of sight between your aircraft and the radar emitter, thus
disrupting semi-active radar systems, while the latter involves diving to very
low altitudes so that the aircraft descends below the minimum altitude for the
SAM system, rendering the missile ballistic and additional launchers impossible.
Every SAM has different minimum engagement altitudes, but for most systems,
descending below 500 feet above terrain level will render tracking impossible.
Common short-range air defense systems such as the SA-15 Tor and SA-8 Gecko, and
the most advanced long-range SAMs such as those in the SA-10 family, can engage
virtually down to 100 feet above terrain level. Luckily, you will rarely, if
ever, encounter these in the stock campaigns that come with BMS. For specific
engagement altitudes, check the Threat Guide PDF in the video description. And I
would again caution that descending to such a low altitude exposes you to a
number of serious threats such as the manned portable shoulder-fired heat-
seeking missile and direct ground fire. Okay, so now we're back in game and now
we're going to go over how to go below a SAM's minimum engagement altitude, and
also how to use terrain and obstacles to mask yourself from a radar emitter in
order to defeat a SAM. These tactics are typically used when you're already at
low altitude and you're fired upon by a SAM. You don't have the option to pull
up and try to kinetically defeat a SAM. It's also used if you need to still fly
into the area where the SAM is defending and you don't have any seed escorts or
seed assets. You would go really low, nap of the earth flying, use terrain
masking and low altitude approaches in order to attack the target area. It's
used in a variety of situations and you'll know them when you see them. So let's
get started. In this scenario, there's an SA-3 up ahead defending a bridge. And
I have the same loadout as the other parts of the video. I have two harms and
some CBUs, typical seed loadout and a jammer. We're going to go ahead and
pretend that I don't have a jammer and I don't have the harm, so that would make
the most sense for this video. I'm going to proceed along the flight plan as if
I was going to strike the bridge from medium altitude and then respond to the
SA-3 pop-up threat. So now I'm ingressing towards the target, just past the IP.
I have SA-3 nails. I'm going to put my throttle to idle and then nose down about
25 degrees. The reason why I'm putting it to idle is because if you go above 600
knots in cathodic conditions, you can seriously damage your aircraft. I'm also
beaming, putting the SA-3 on the beam right now. I'm diving towards these
buildings because I figure if it fires on me right now, I can at least mask
behind those buildings. And now I'm surveying the terrain so I can see to the
left of the target, there's some hills that might provide a good way to pop up
on the target. Now, if this was an actual mission and I was trying to hit this
target, I would just terrain mask behind these hills and then pop up and hit the
target. But since this is educational, I'm supposed to be showing you how SAMs
go ballistic at low altitude. I'm going to intentionally jink into the target
and try to get it to fire on me and then use the principles that we've gone over
to avoid being killed. Right now I'm just above the minimum engagement range for
the SA-3 and I know that. I want it to fire at me. That's a spike. And here's a
launch. Now what I do is I dive, see how I dive down below this little ridge? I
know that I'm denying line of sight to the radar to me and that's going to make
the missile break its lock and you can tell the ZRWR went silent and now the
SA-3 went ballistic up into the air. Some good terrain to mask. See here on the
left in this little ravine, the radar does not have a line of sight on me and if
it does momentarily get line of sight, I can dive down behind one of these
hills. And again, you know, if I was actually intending to hit this target, I
wouldn't be doing this. The only reason I'm doing this is to have it fire on me
again. I would have just approached from the left side of the target in that
mass terrain, popped up and then dropped CBs on the target. Right now I'm
masked, now I'm unmasked. See how I popped up a little bit? Trying to get it to
shoot at me. SA-3 is a pretty fast missile so if you mess up doing this you can
die rather quickly. So I just went completely around the radar emitter and it
didn't fire on me mainly because I was masked for most of the time. When we go
over this little ridge here, I'm going to be revealed I believe. Now I'm lining
up for a pop-up attack. This is a really ad hoc pop-up attack. You know, I'm not
really calculating this that well so it looks pretty sloppy but it just shows
you what you can do with masking. About 40 degrees off the nose now. I'm going
to pull and then drop CBs on the bridge. Now it's going to give him a chance to
take a shot at me because I unmasked myself. I don't think I hit the radar. Now
see how I'm up? I went above the minimum engagement range. Now he's going to
fire on me but luckily this terrain here I can mask behind. Now watch this
because this is an excellent demonstration of terrain masking in action. I go
behind this hill and now watch the missile just ballistically fly overhead just
completely trackless. And there we have it. The next weapon we're going to
overview is the Heat Seeking Infrared Missile also known as a Heat Seeker or
Heater. The Heater's mechanism of tracking is by use of a thermal contrast.
While a radar is often used to slave a Heater's Seeker to a target, the actual
missile guidance is entirely by means of IR Seeking. Once a Heater comes off the
rail, it requires no support and is fully autonomous. Take note that a stray
fired IR missile can lock onto any nearby heat signature including friendlies.
It's important to note that you'll have no warning that a Heater has been fired
at you other than visual because as we have discussed it does not use radar.
Heaters are typically short-range missiles used in visual range although the
newest Heaters do have the potential for beyond visual range engagement. The T
models of the AA-10 Alamo also have terminal IR guidance. An important concept
in IR missiles is the aspect capabilities of the Seeker. Early generation
missile seekers such as those found on the AA-2 Atoll and the AIM-9 Papa could
only receive good locks from rear quarter shots on enemy aircraft. That is to
say, the IR missile would only lock when in view of the aircraft's engine or
exhaust. IR missiles designed and entering service during the 1980s introduced
full aspect capability, the most notorious of which was the AA-11 Archer, first
carried by the MiG-29. When defending a Heater, aspect capability is critical.
Old systems such as the SA-7 Strela fired at nose aspect have a miniscule chance
of hitting, while the Archer is deadly from any aspect and any approach. You
should treat any Heater fired at you as a full aspect missile, but should be
aware that older aircraft such as the MiG-21 and MiG-19 almost always carry rear
aspect Heaters, while the newer MiG-23, MiG-29, and Sukhoi's carry full aspect
missiles. Heaters also manifest in the form of shoulder fired manned portable
systems commonly abbreviated as man-pads. The vast majority of the DPRK Army and
BMS carry the SA-7 Strela. The Strela is extremely ineffective, it's a short
range man-pad which is highly sensitive to flares and maneuvers. That being
said, a small percentage of elite units in the DPRK carry the SA-16 Gimlet, a
full aspect and very dangerous man-pad system. Ultimately, when you go below
12,000 feet or so, the max effective engagement range for most man-pads, you
should be looking for launches, you should expect a man-pad launch, and deploy
flares as you pop up or dive down for terminal attacks. Flares are what confuse
heat-seeking missiles, and are typically much more effective than chaff is to
radar guided missiles. Even the newest heat-seeking missiles can be reasonably
defeated by a large output of flares and a high G-brake at any aspect or range.
Of course, heat seekers are extremely deadly if you are out of flares, and it's
virtually impossible to defend an archer or other current generation heater
without flares. Defending heaters without countermeasures is much deadlier than
defending radar guided missiles without countermeasures. Okay, now we're back in
game, and we're going to go over how to defeat heat-seeking missiles. Now unlike
the radar segment, the radar missile segments which are quite lengthy and sort
of complicated different maneuvers, to defeat a heat seeker it's pretty simple.
You only have about five seconds to do something before it hits you due to the
ranges involved. And all it includes is simply approximating where the aircraft
is going to fire from, and then breaking away from the missile path and popping
flares. That's pretty much it. And there's not much more to it than that. So I
got a C-27 to merge, he's got two archers, we're going to fly towards him, we're
going to let him fire at me, and then I'm going to defend accordingly. And keep
in mind that he's using full aspect missiles so it can be a little different if
this was like a MiG-21 or something. So make sure you have a flare program
selected, just keep in mind, flares are the only thing that are effective
against heaters. You know, the chap does nothing. So make sure you have the
flare selected, make sure you have a flare program set on your data cartridge.
For me it's program two. And I'm going to unpause and then show you what to do.
Make sure you pump out quite a few flares as well. Especially with the archer,
because the archer is quite resistant to flares. So make sure you pump out at
least eight flares. So we're in the merge now. And the one, I should add that
the one really dangerous thing about the archer is that it has off-boresight
capability of about 60 degrees. Meaning, he doesn't have to point at me in order
to fire the missile. He can be as far away as 60 degrees off my nose, and he can
still fire at me and that missile will track just as well. The archer is an
extremely deadly missile on par with the AIM-9X and the Python 5. Looks like
he's beaming. Now if he turned into me right now, he could get an archer shot
off due to the off-boresight capability, which he's probably going to do. He's
probably going to come up, probably going to climb, and then turn into me and
fire an archer at me. And if he does that, I'm going to break right and pop
flares. Here he comes. One archer down. When you're in a fight with missiles,
short-range missiles, make sure there's a second one breaking left. That's it
for him. He's out of missiles. So it's that simple, guys. The point is, is just
get, you know, get those flares out. That's the most important thing, is that
you get the flares out. Okay? Doesn't, you know, the maneuver and the break and
all that, it's not that important compared to just the fact that you have to get
those flares out, otherwise you're just not going to kill the target. So here's
another common scenario that you might find yourself in, and that is doing
ground attack operations where you have to break a hard deck of about 15,000
feet. And in these sort of missions, like OKA strikes and missions where you
have to drop bombs on bridges or drop bombs on tanks or whatever, when you go
below 15,000, you expose yourself to a wide range of threats, including man-
pads. And when you go below 15,000, you should expect to be fired upon by man-
pads. You should preemptively pop flares, and you should very aggressively scan
with your head. Use the Mark 1 eyeball to look for launches. Okay? So this is an
OKA strike on the air base that was in the earlier part of the video, and I have
six BLU-107s, Marita Air Ordnance and a Centerline Jammer. I have a wingman,
although he's probably going to be worthless, and the air base is defended by
two infantry battalions and a self-propelled artillery battalion. All of them
have a variety of man-pads. The infantry battalions have SA-7 Strelas, and the
self-propelled gun battalions, I believe, have SA-14s, which are a full-aspect
IR missile. So what we're going to do is we're about six and a half miles from
the IP. We're going to fly this as if we were doing the mission, and you're
going to see how I use flares, you know, preemptively and actively to defeat
man-pads that are going to pop up. It's always amazing to see how many man-pads
actually pop up, and more often than not, you won't even see them, but when you
watch replays and stuff like that, you'll see them flying up at you, and that's
never a good sign. That means you're moments away from death. Always
preemptively pop flares when you're on the target, and especially as you're
egressing. That's when you usually get hit, is when you're pulling up and
egressing. That's when you usually get hit right in the tailpipe. So that being
said, make sure you have a flare program selected, and you're pretty much good
to go. We're approaching the air base for about six miles to the IP. At the IP,
we're going to begin a combat dive. If I nose down, you can visually see the air
base, and I can see... Looks pretty clear at this time, but we're going to take
a closer look when we get down to the IP. We're at the IP now, beginning a
combat dive. I'm inspecting the area, and I spot some vehicles on the left side
of the air base. Looks like some BMPs. Looks like a whole battalion there lined
up on the left side of the air base. That's a lot of people. They're lined up on
the left side of the air base. That's going to be my primary concern as I dive.
We now expect SAM launches from the left side. What you hear is we're going to
run in at fast speed, low altitude, drop our bombs. And as you go below about
12,000, start really scanning for launches. This is the death zone. As you go
below 10,000, that's really deadly. Here it goes. I'm almost on final now. Okay,
and as soon as we begin to run onto the target, we're going to start popping
flares. Here it goes. Falcon, bombs away. Bombs away. Stay low. Falcon, one two,
SAM launch, north. Falcon, one two, SAM launch, east. Once we're out of the
threat envelope, we're going to gain altitude. Lastly, we're going to cover how
to defend ground fire. It's pretty simple. You can't. At least not effectively.
Ground fire is extremely deadly and the best defense is simply avoiding it. This
involves inspecting the target area before the mission. And if it's a sort of
interdiction and you're not sure where your attacks will be taking place, then
you need to not descend below a predetermined minimum operating altitude. This
is often referred to as a hard deck. The hard deck for most missions is probably
15,000. Although once you become very proficient with the Viper, you can descend
to as low as 9 or 10,000. Anything lower than that is just stupid. It's an
invitation to eat a shilka or man bed. If you do find yourself in a situation in
which you are taking ground fire, your only hope is to burn down the target
area. If you do find yourself in a situation in which you are taking ground
fire, your only hope is to burn as fast as possible out of the envelope, terrain
mask, and make small and rapid, vertical then horizontal jinks in alternating
turns. Do not, I repeat, do not, pull directly up when taking accurate ground
fire. You will die. So here's another scenario likely to run into in the
campaign, and that's doing an interdiction on moving ground units. And this is
when a lot of people get hit by ground fire, because they don't really know how
to line up an attack run so that they come up above the hard deck. So I can't
really show you how to avoid ground fire, because all it involves is jinking and
burning out of the envelope, and that's pretty self-explanatory. But what I can
show you how to do, which might be useful, is I'm going to show you how to
successfully stay out of that envelope completely and do a dive bomb attack by
approaching at medium altitude, nosing down sharply onto a target, and then
releasing ordnance, pulling up before you break the hard deck. And it's pretty
simple. The way I would do it is, I know, you know, in this mission there's a
moving motor rifle battalion up ahead. I know that there's enemy in the general
vicinity of about 60 miles. I'm just going to put my radar into GMT mode, ground
moving target. I'm going to find them on the radar, lock them up, and then what
I'm going to do is I'm going to offset from the target by about 20 degrees, and
then at about three miles or four miles, I'm going to nose down sharply, drop
the bombs while popping flares, and then come up above the hard deck. And the
hard deck for this is about 12,000, because there's SA-9 Geckos inside the
battalion. There's also MAMPADs. So it's quite a substantial threat from the
battalion, and if I mess this up, I pretty much die. I have four CBO-87s and a
centerline tank. I've located the column, moving on GMT. I'm going to lock up
the end of the column. It's about five degrees left on my nose. I'm trying to
gain some altitude here. I want to be at least 19 or 20,000 to do a proper dive
bomb attack. We're going to offset to the right or left of the target. This way
we can see it. We can see it better. If we're approaching at 12 o'clock, the
front of the nose is going to mask the target. We're not going to be able to see
it. It's about 14 miles to my 11 o'clock approximately. I'm going to use CCRP
mode in order to locate them. There they are. I see them moving parallel to the
road. I'm going to keep approaching them. I'm going to use CCRP to orient
ourselves to the column. When we're at a good enough distance, let's say about
three more miles, we're going to nose down about 40 degrees and drop a bomb. A
little bit more. We've got a AAA spike. I'm going to clock almost into a nice
position here. Say about five miles or so. We're going to roll onto the target.
I'm going to keep going. Say about five miles or so. Now we're going to roll
onto the target. To tie all this together, I want to discuss some basic
principles of defense. I have shown you the procedures for defending various
threats, but haven't spoken about how all of this relates to smart flying.
 Avoid all of these threats which have been overviewed in this video before they
fire on you. Properly being able to read and interpret the RWR is essential, as
well as understanding the concept of beaming. You should always try to put
hostile emitters on the beam, and to keep them in the outer ring of the RWR.
Another important concept is using your eyes. Eyes are the most underrated
feature in flight simulators, mainly because new people become obsessed with the
avionics. But in doubt, just look outside of the cockpit. A third principle is
space. You need space between you and a threat. The less space, the deadlier it
is. If you are close enough to a MiG-29 to have it fire its archer at you, I
hope you are being ambushed and didn't intentionally put yourself in that
situation. There is no dishonor in simply doing a split S and burning away from
a target. Create space from threats if you are unsure of what's going on. Don't
keep flying into the unknown. You are going to end up exploding, seemingly out
of nowhere. If you see a MiG on your RWR, then it suddenly disappears. Chances
are it's not gone, but very low and about to ambush you. Think about stuff like
that. Don't ignore obvious signs of danger. Fourth, whenever you do something,
think, how can I die doing what I am about to do, and how will I escape if I get
engaged by what could kill me? Something like that will hopefully stop you from
thinking it's okay to fly 3,000 feet off the ground while dropping bombs, when
virtually all the weapons in the enemy arsenal, besides the AK-47, will be able
to engage you from that altitude. Lastly, rely on your wingmen and support your
leads. If there's a SAM launch and it's not on you, that doesn't give you
license to just keep flying and going on your merry way. You better be looking
outside and helping people defend against it. Helping people is what it's all
about. If you try to defend against a SAM blind, it's a recipe for disaster. I
hope this video was helpful. Stay frosty. Okay, now I'm going to show you guys a
great defensive maneuver called the Split S, and this will save your ass. It
combines three great things, okay? Aspect change, which will confuse radars. It
will turn you around as fast as possible, and it will increase your speed, okay,
at the expense of altitude. And the basic procedure for doing this is that we're
going to do an emergency jettison of our stores by pressing right control J.
Once the stores are jettisoned, we're going to change our stores config to
category one by pressing shift C. We're going to invert and then pull, okay? So
it goes something like this. A SAM has been fired at me, left control on J,
shift C, and then I'm going to invert, pull, and I'm going to pop flares. That's
it. Now you're pretty much in less than about five seconds. You're now flying
away from the enemy at high speed, and now you can perform additional defensive
maneuvers if you'd be. So in this video, I'm going to show you how to be a
wingman. I'm not going to cover everything. Instead, this is going to be some
unedited gameplay footage of a tactical engagement that my squadron recently did
involving an attack on a nuclear plant. As the flight's going on, I'm going to
give you some stream of consciousness style narration and let you know
everything that's going through my head, why I'm doing certain things in the
flight, and even why I'm looking at certain things in the cockpit. So what is
this flight? Well, it's four ships, all human, and it involves a nap of the
earth approach to a nuclear plant that's in North Korea, a pop-up attack onto
the target, and an egress also using terrain masking, also a nap of the earth.
The idea here is that we're going to approach a target undetected, very heavily
defended target. There's multiple SA-2s and SA-3s, and SA-6 right to the
southeast, and some AAA. So we're going to approach a target masked. We're going
to pop up on the target and drop GBUs on it. The target itself, the main target
for myself at least is going to be the nuclear reactor, and I'm number two in
the flight. On the wingman of the flight lead, need to make sure that he
survives and that he's supported. We're probably going to be attacking from the
south, offsetting about 20 or 30 degrees, pulling and then dropping the bombs.
You can see here the target's very heavily defended. One of the immediate
threats on the target area is this AAA battalion that we're looking at now. Some
S-60s, KS-19s, radar guided AAA, and then to the southeast is the SA-6 battalion
with an active radar. To the south, we have a SA-3 overwatching the target area.
To the southeast, by about 40 miles, we have a Koumni airbase which has a
squadron of MiG-21 Foxtrot's. There's also word that there might be MiG-23s
coming from the northwest. Loadout, we have two GBU-31s, two tanks, centerline
jammer, three AIM-120 Charlies, and an AIM-9X. That said, let's get started. So
when you first get in, you have a few responsibilities. Number one is to tell
them that you're in the pit, and that just means, hey, I'm in the cockpit, I've
loaded into the game. The last thing is, you're seeing what I'm doing here, is
I'm setting up the arming delays in my bombs. The worst thing that could happen
is getting to the target area and then the bombs don't come off or they don't
explode for whatever reason. So we're going to make sure that we set our arming
delays. I'm also going to turn on my HMCS, turn on my DED data, and really
importantly, I'm going to turn on my radar altimeter. I know that's important in
this flight because we're going to be doing some low altitude stuff. It's really
important to know your true altitude. Turning on that now. Lead called for taxi,
so I'm just taxiing behind them. Looking off foresight here, and then I'm
turning off my HMCS. So I can clearly see the lead once we get airborne. So we
called for a two-ship departure, which means the entire element, one and two,
and then three and four, are going to take off at the same time. Since he said
he's taking active left, I'm going to take the right side behind him diagonally,
behind him to the right. It's important that you don't pass the lead when you're
taxiing to position. I'm going to wait for him to get into position, and then
come up behind him. Tell him I'm set. Take off roll, usually put your brakes on,
let the engine roll a bit, and then you full turn. That's what we're doing now.
I'm letting the lead stay in front of me the entire time. I'm not passing the
lead. I don't turn my afterburner on until he's clearly rolling in front of me.
When I get airborne, my first order of business is to maintain visual contact
with the lead and try to get into formation. The default formation is a finger
four, so unless the lead says otherwise, it should always be on the lead's left,
diagonally behind him to the left, in the case of me being number two. Brakes
on, probably 8%. Brakes off three to one now. Full burn three to one now.
Normally when you do a takeoff, you're about 10 degrees nose up and you full
burn to 350, but the main thing here is that you remain in formation with the
lead. I saw that the lead wasn't pitching up, so I maintain visual contact with
him and I go off of his wing. You're always off of the lead's wing, no matter
what. You're not flying on your own. You're not navigating. Leads 350, five
degrees nose up, passing two to one. I call it an informative call. Whenever the
lead gives an order, you want to acknowledge it, but if it's an informative
call, you can just acknowledge it yourself, but you don't have to stay on the
radio. Falcon one, finger four. The lead said Falcon one, finger four, which
means Falcon one flight, go finger four. My response was two saddled, which
means two, I acknowledge you. That's my call sign. I say two. Saddled means I'm
in formation already. He knows from that information that not only do I
acknowledge him, but I'm also in formation. I could also follow that up by
telling him that I'm visual to his left five, which would mean if you look to
your five o'clock, you'll see me there. Right now, one of the wingmen is having
a technical issue, so I'll just talk about what's going on here, the whole
purpose of the dynamic between the wingman and the lead. My job and your job as
a wingman is to maintain visual contact with the lead and fly in formation.
That's pretty much it. That's the basic role of the wingman. Fly in formation,
maintain visual on the lead. Your job is not to navigate, and it's not to sort
contacts, and it's not to employ weapons, and so you've been told to by the
lead. Your job is to protect the lead and to support the lead. Dock in one
fence, leads 113, music off. Fence 113, music on. Freeze fence 113. The lead
just said fence, which means put your master arm on, turn your exterior lights
off, and otherwise prepare for combat. It means you're going over the fence, so
to speak, into enemy territory and that you need to prepare for combat. So my
response was my call sign followed by my fuel status, and he also said music on,
which means put your jammer on. So my response was two, my fuel status, and then
music on, which means I acknowledge you, fencing in, and then also my jammer's
on. Okay, forget that. And music on. And we can see here the rest of the flight
actually stripped out of formation, which is actually bad. I'm the only one who
has information right now, and the other two guys are sort of out of formation
because of the technical issues of one of the wingmen. Falcon 11, sentry one,
picture clear. What is it? Leads level 10,000, speed 350. So again, that's
another informative call. You don't have to acknowledge that. It's just a for-
your-own-information sort of call. This entire time, my eyes are fixed. They're
sort of padlocked on the lead. So I'm glancing to the right the entire time I'm
flying. Flight, push it up. Say again? Flight, push it up, speed 450. So he said
something I didn't understand that I asked. I said, say again, and he said push
up to 450, which means basically, obviously, bringing up to 450 knots. But
again, those orders don't matter. It's not like that order means you should
immediately go to 450 knots. It means this is what I'm doing as the lead and you
should be prepared to meet my speed. Because again, your job as a wingman is not
to navigate. You need to stay in formation. So if he says we're going to check
left or whatever, that means you're going to stay on his wing, but be prepared
to check left. This entire time, I'm watching him. Now, if he starts sliding
towards me on my canopy, that means that I'm closing on him. If he starts
sliding away, it means that he's going faster than me. And if he's relatively
stable as he is now, it means we're going relatively the same speed. Talking to
one radar. Two is naked. Freeze, Nick. Go ahead, Nick. Did you say turn the
radar off? That's for him. Okay, two snows. Three snows. So what happened there
is the lead said something. I didn't understand it. I thought he said radar
picture. So I thought he wanted me to tell him if I had any radar contacts and
then clarified that. And he wanted us to actually turn our radar off. Because
we're going to be approaching. We want to be approaching undetected. So I'm
approaching. We're approaching without our radar on this way. If there are
interceptors in the air, we're less likely to be detected by them. And they'll
have to spot us visually. So I press the override button on my FCR. We're now
radar silent. Still got one by at 16. This entire time I'm focused on the lead.
And if he starts to slide away from me, I increase my speed a bit. If he starts
to slide towards me, I bring my speed down a bit. I want him to be fixed on my
canopy and not moving. That means that we're relatively going the same speed.
And if he gets a little too far away, I'll maybe kick in the burner for like
three or four seconds just to gain some speed. And then I'll bring the throttle
back down. So this. All right Falcon 1 flight idle. Nose down 25 degrees.
Looking for 500. So now what we're doing is we're going to go nap of the earth
now. We're going to go nap of the earth now. So I acknowledge him when he says
he says go flight idle nose down 35 degrees. And this entire time I'm worried
about two things. My airspeed and my relation to him. I don't want to push in
front of him. And I also want to stay in formation. So I'm trying to maintain
formation and also watch my airspeed. This is check right. So what do I do? I
switch the steer. I switch the steer and I prepared a turn. But my main thing is
I'm keeping him on the wing or rather I'm being on his wing. Actually deploy my
speed brakes here for a second because I was overtaking him a bit too much. So I
just cut my throttle way back to put my speed brakes for about five seconds. As
you can see here. As you can see here. As you can see here my heads are up. My
head is up the entire time. I'm not looking down at my instruments really. I'm
just keeping my eyes on the lead and on my HUD. Especially my flight path
marker. Making sure I'm not hitting the ground. Also looking at the airspeed.
Making sure that I'm not overtaking the lead. I know that if I stay in formation
the lead will bring me to the target. And then I'll hit the target. So I'm not
worrying about anything like that. Not worrying about navigation where we are.
The lead is worrying about that. He's the one who's looking down at the sensors.
He's the one who's looking at the HSD and seeing where we're going. I'm just
trying to stay on his wing. And this will take some practice. Staying in
formation like this and watching your airspeed and everything like that. It's
something that's going to take a lot of practice. But just keep that trick in
mind. Or that sort of rule of thumb. That if he's sliding towards you. Then
you're going too fast. If he's sliding away you're going too slow. And if he's
on your cockpit or if he's on your canopy still. Then you're going just right.
Pull up. Pull up. And although it looks like my head's centered. In real life
what I'm doing is my eyes are pointing to the right. So my peripheral to the
left is actually pretty. I'm pretty blind to what's on the left. I mean I'm
occasionally glancing over there. But it's mostly just sticking my eyes on the
lead. And also of course making sure. Looking at my flight path marker. Making
sure that I'm not hitting the ground. Making sure that I'm at a low altitude.
Ten miles to your. Ten miles to the pre-IP. Pull up. Pull up. Pull up. You can
see here I'm glancing down a bit. Just to see our current flight status. I
wanted to look at my HSD and see where we were approximately. But it's not
really a preoccupation of mine. Pull up. Pull up. Pull up. Lock and one check
with steer four IP. So when he says check steer four. I acknowledge it. Press my
rocker switch. Switch to the next steer point. And prepare to turn. Just going
trail. So I just made a decision there on my own to change of formation. Because
I know that we're about to run in on the target. Pull up. Pull up. Pull up. Pull
up. Pull up. Pull up. I said two's going trail. Which basically means I'm going
into trail formation. This way when we pop up we won't hit into each other
accidentally if we need to turn. I don't want to be offset from him when we're
going to be running into the target area. And since he didn't say anything or
try to correct me. I'm going to assume that that was an okay decision on my
part. Lock and one reference targets. So right here I'm turning my radar back on
mainly because we're about to run into the target area. And we might have
interceptors there. Hold up. Hold up. Hold up. And we start to get pinged by the
first radars. Pull up. Pull up. Pull up. I switch it to air to ground. I'm a
little worried about the lead here being so high. I'm going to have to get the
radar to the target area. I'm going to have to try to get it to the target area.
I'm going to have to get the radar to the target area. Pull up. Pull up. Pull
up. I'm a little worried about the lead here being so high. So I try to tell him
to bring it down. Again, because you're trying to look out for your lead. Make
sure he doesn't get killed. The leads often think about tactics and stuff and
not really thinking about stuff like that. Mud six. Mud six. Pull up. Pull up.
Pull up. Mud six one o'clock. Pull up. Pull up. Pull up. Lead watcher angels
there. Pretty high. Freeze mud. I'm going to start looking around for threats.
Lead spike. I say three defense. A Sam's been fired at the lead. I didn't know
this at the time. Pull up. Pull up. Pull up. I'm going to stay with you. Smoke
three. Smoke three. Sam, right? I see a Sam. Call it out to the flight. In the
back, someone got fired upon. I'm with you. Again, it's very tempting to try to
break off and go for the target. You don't want to do that though. You want to
stay with your lead and support your lead. Right now, I'm just padlocked on the
lead trying to stay in good formation. Pull up. Pull up. Trying to stay low so I
don't get Sam's fired at me. Pull up. Pull up. Train masking here. Sam launch.
The lead calls out a Sam launch, but we're train masking so it gets defeated.
It's ballistic. Now we're about to do a pop up attack. I'm going to want to make
sure I'm really close to the lead now. It's cranky. Hey, let's pull, man. I'm
with you. Pulling up. I let him know that I'm with him. This way he's confident
of what he's doing. So I'm just staying in formation. I don't even see the
target right now. I try to look down to see if I can see it quickly, but the
main thing is to stay in formation. Flight idle here so I can slow down because
I was overtaking the lead a bit. The target comes into view. I'm going to wait
for him to release, then I'm going to release, but I don't want to hit him with
my bombs. Bombs away. Watching my altitude here. Make sure I'm above 2,000
because I don't want to get hit by my bombs. I say, hey, flipper left, because
I'm reminding him that we need to egress left. Left. 1-2-0. I'm sorry.
Correction. 3-5-0. Oh, shit. We have a mid-air collision here. Hey, whoever's in
a right turn, you need to knock it off. Not 6-foot. Stop. I put my radar back on
override because I figured we were going to start training masking again. I let
him know that I'm back in formation after I burn up to him a bit. 2 is 0-6-6.
Lead just called for an off check, which is usually you say your fuel and then
you say your weapon status. 2-8-0. 3 copies heading 3-8-0. 4 copy. See, I'm
turning here to the left so I can always keep him at my 1 o'clock position and
keep him within visual contact. Alright, lead's still buster. Let's go ahead and
climb up to angels 25 heading 2-8-0. Lead's out 10 degrees north. Why are we
going to angels now? We're going to get intercepted. We're outside third ring.
So normally you wouldn't be questioning your lead like this or at least you
wouldn't unless they were directly putting themselves in danger. But I am the
senior pilot here and the lead is a bit of a new guy. He's not a new guy but
he's not the most experienced leader. I tried to ask him why we're going up to
altitude at this time. It doesn't make any tactical sense and we still should be
remaining low during the egress. So he's decided he's going to do a medium
altitude egress which is fine but it will just increase our chances of being
intercepted. He's the boss since he's the lead so I'm just going to remain in
formation and support him. Yeah, I'm talking about continuing climb 10,000.
Should we come out of the side of the moon? Say it. You want us to come out of
the side of the moon? We'll check left to 230 here. One century, one tiger,
campaign, one bullseye, 095, 100 miles, TACAN channel, Zunina, Yankee. Flight
check left 190. Yeah. Flight. Forward. Actually correction, 200. Yeah. Three,
four. So we've been flying around at medium altitude and we're now about to be
intercepted much as I feared. Falcon 11 picture. Century one, Falcon 11, request
director to direct. Falcon 11, century one, picture is multiple groups near a
expanded bullseye, 290, 30 miles, 26,000. Falcon one, century one, nearest
hostile, make 23, bullseye, 290, 30 miles, 26,000. M01 check right 230. So the
lead says check right 230. It probably means he's going to commit to those
bandits. Being in visual contact is even more important in this case than ever
before. If we enter a dogfight, it's very easy for a bandit to get onto the
lead's tail and then kill him. Element two, continue heading 165. He's contact.
I let the lead know that I'm contact, which means I have contact on the group
that was just declared by the AWACS. And now the lead will sort out the targets
and assign them. He's beaming us. Looks like he has no... So we're committed to
this group. He gave you this group. The lead is sorted on the front target. So
he said, element one gets sorted, which means I'm not going to sort your own
targets too. So I take the MIG-23's wingman, which is the left, and I let the
lead know that. So I'm having actually an issue here with my radar. There's a
bug in BMS where if you put it in override sometimes, it doesn't... It's broken.
It has some issues. So I'm trying to fix that right now. Copy that. Freeze
sorted on the trail, the left contact. Roger that. Bandit is now with a Fox 3
medium. Finally finding the issue. I got it. Find the contact. Fire a missile at
him. And then now my first thought is, is I want to support this missile. Once
it goes pitbull, I want to rejoin with the lead. So now the missile's pitbull.
Now what I want to do is I'm looking around trying to find the lead. If you lose
sight of the lead, it's possible that he can get engaged. I actually decreased
the HSD size trying to find him on the HSD. I used HSD as a point of reference,
and then I used that to find the lead in the sky. It's a 4 ounce gun. I don't
have one shot back. Heading 230. Freeze contact faded. No joy on the Bandit.
Lead's turning into me. 2, 3, 016, west. So the lead's turned into me, and he's
going to go and try to engage those Bandits, so I'm turning back in. I'm going
to try to stay on the 6 and support him. I'm going to go get this fucker. So
this is really bad comms right now. I'm going to go get this fucker. I'm going
to go get this fucker. So this is really bad comms right now, but it's still
worth watching, I guess. So I found the Bandit, and the lead is actually naked
on the Bandit. He doesn't know where the Bandit is. The other element is trying
to engage the Bandit, but they're ineffective. You guys married? I say visual,
which means I'm visual to the lead. I have visual contact on him, and I also am
information. They go defensive now. Heads southeast. Two. Two, I got a shot. Let
the lead know I have a shot. The lead is currently no joy on the target, and no
contacts. I'm going to use my heater. I'm going to use my heater on the target,
because I know this friendly is nearby, and I don't want the aim ram to go
berserk and kill a friendly. Actually, if I were Fox 3 close, I'd be at that
range, it wouldn't matter. Copy. Now that we've killed the Bandit, my immediate
thought is where is the lead, and I need to rejoin on the lead. Sentry 1, Falcon
11. Request director to direct. Falcon 1, Sentry 1, I don't have any targets.
Falcon 1, R2. Falcon 1, standing at field. 2 is 0281 radar. Transvisual, 206. 3
is 0511 radar. So I used a little trick there, which is I wasn't sure where the
lead was visually, so I locked him up on the radar, and then I used my HUD to
reference his position. You can do that, it's a good trick. If you don't know
where the lead is, but you know he's on your radar, or you know he's on the HSD,
just lock him up, and I'll find him that way. Just as you would in enemy
contact. So that's pretty much the end of this video. I hope it was useful, I
hope it was insightful. Please let me know if I didn't cover anything, I know
it's very vague and very basic. And the reason for that is, is because there is
so much material to cover that it's pretty much impossible. For the individual
wingman tactics, two ship tactics and stuff like that, I'm going to refer you to
a book in the video description. It's sort of like a standard text on BFM
tactics and air to air combat tactics. I didn't want to go into that in this
video, mainly because it would be a 20 hour long video if not longer. What I
mainly wanted to convey in this video is just the need for mutual support, the
need for following the lead, remaining in contact with the lead, and trusting
the lead. Not trying to be a navigator, not trying to be someone who is
concerning tactics and things like that. You can do that as a lead, you can do
that as an element leader, but as a wingman your main job is to make sure that
the lead survives. And make sure that everyone gets home alive. So please leave
feedback, let me know if there is anything I haven't covered. And I'll answer it
in some questions or maybe in a follow up video. Thanks. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.
Okay. I'm really afraid that was about to crash. Okay. What the fuck? Okay.
Okay. Altitude. Altitude. Altitude. Altitude. Altitude. Altitude. Altitude.
Altitude. Altitude, altitude. Altitude, altitude. Lock. Pull up, pull up.
Altitude, altitude. Lock. Lock. Lock. Lock. Lock. Lock. Bingo, bingo. Lock.
Altitude, altitude. Lock. Altitude, altitude. So I was like, what the fuck? I
was all confused. Are you behind me already? Oh, there you are. Hi. Oh, hi.
Lock. Lock. Altitude, altitude. Lock. Lock. Warning, warning. Oh, bitch, man.
Warning, warning. Did you see how I fucking crashed? Are you stalled out? I
think that's the first time I ever crashed an F-16 engine first. I was going to
say, man, because I almost stalled out and I was higher than you. Yeah. Hi.
Welcome to another Falcon 4 BMS tutorial. In this video, we're going to talk
about how to organize and plan a package. A package is a mission that comprises
a group of aircraft assigned to various objectives and targets in order to
accomplish an objective. So a package of aircraft might be an attack on an enemy
air base, and in that package there might be several flights of aircraft. You
might have a SEAD flight, which is responsible for suppressing the air defenses
on the target. You might have a strike flight, which is responsible for actually
attacking the runway. And you will have an escort, which is often used to engage
any enemy bandits that are in the vicinity of the target. Now that we've
established our packages, one of the things that a lot of players want to do is
they want to create their own packages. They want to modify missions, but they
don't know how to do it. It's something that most players, even the most
advanced players, put off and they consider it to be way too advanced for them.
And what I want to do in this video is I want to just dispel all of that sort of
myth surrounding creating packages. It's very simple. It can become advanced. If
you'd like it to, it can become as granular and as complex as you'd like. But to
create a basic package, like a strike package on an air base or a suppression
package on a radar station or something like that, it's very simple. So I'm
going to show you some tricks and we'll get going. So most of you are going to
be playing in the campaign, and that's where you want to create packages and
modify missions. So I'm going to go ahead and start a new campaign out of the
120th out of Seosan. And what's really important here is that if you click OK at
this time, the air tasking order will start to populate your squadron with
missions or packages. And because it does that, you won't have any aircraft to
make your own packages because they'll be reserved by the AI. Now, the great
thing about BMS, which contrasts from Allied Force, is that in BMS we can
actually disable the air tasking order AI control for one squadron. You know,
any squadron we like, we can disable the AI for that. We don't have to disable
it again across the entire theater as you have to do in Allied Force. So to make
things simple, we're just going to turn off the air tasking order for the
squadron. So in order to do that, you just go into here, you click this button
right here under the stop, which expands it. And then this button right here is
the settings for the squadron. This square button right here looks like a little
computer. And then the squadron screen will come up, it tells you all about your
squadron. What's important for us is that there's a little box here that says
set by headquarters. We're going to uncheck that. That will disable the air
tasking order for the squadron. Now, if I go ahead and start the campaign, you
can see that no packages are being fragged for the 120th. There are other
aircraft that are being fragged.
 other allied aircrafts that have been fragged, Packages are going up for them,
but as far as our squadron, nothing's being fragged, and that's great, because
now we have, you know, ten aircrafts to work with. You won't have the entire
force of the squadron, so if we go back to the squadron screen, you'll see that
we have twelve aircrafts. They'll never let you use all of the aircraft, it
always accounts for two aircraft for an alert fighters that are basically on the
runway waiting to intercept enemy, so you can never use all of them, but we
essentially have ten aircraft right now that we can use for a package. So
starting off in the campaign, what you normally want to do when you start is you
want to do Sea-AD missions and you want to do OCA missions, and air supremacy
operations. That's essentially what you want to do, you want to destroy their
ability to defend their airspace, this way you can follow up later on with deep
strikes and infrastructure attacks, deep attacks onto their main airbases way in
the rear. So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to pull up the order of
battle and I'm just going to try to find an airbase somewhere on the coast or
something like that, that we can set up a package to attack. So here's an
airbase, Heiju airbase, it's right on the shore, and it has a squadron of MiG-21
Mike Foxtrotts, eighteen of them. You see there's some enemy air in the vicinity
of that target, that's fine. So I'm going to set up a package now to attack
Heiju. Now in order to do that you sort of have to do a threat analysis of what
is around the target. So what I did there is I right-clicked this ground unit to
turn on air defense and support and combat battalions, and then you can also put
on threat circles, and what the threat circles will do is, if you right-click
the threat circles, is that if you put on ADA low altitude or high altitude,
this will show you the threat rings, the maximum engagement ranges of the air
defense artillery, aka SAMs. So we can see that there's two, there's a number of
air defenses over watching the entire flot. Now most of these UD rings are
actually SA-5s, and they're not a big threat. They could fire on you, but they
probably won't, and if they do they're easy to defend. They're not the biggest
threat, but as far as hitting Heiju itself, really what we want to look at is
SA-2s, SA-3s, SA-4s, SA-6s, medium range SAMs that can actually accurately
engage you if you come within range of the target. The SA-5s are sort of, you
know, they were originally designed to shoot down bombers, and that's really
what they're useful for, shooting down large lumbering targets. They're not very
effective at engaging fighters, unless you're completely oblivious to them. So
that being said, what I like to do once I've found a target and once I've
checked on all the defenses is I like to look at, you know, I like to look at
the individual battalions, so I right-click on the unit, and then I go to
status. And you can see here that the 131st Air Defense Battalion is defending
Heiju, and they have SA-2s. SA-2s are an outdated SAM but they're extremely
dangerous if you ignore them. They'll shoot you down if you ignore them. They
can be reliably defeated by SEAD aircraft, they're just not something to ignore.
And there's also another SA-2 battalion to the west of that, the 3764th Air
Defense Battalion. They are west of Heiju, they're also going to be a threat.
What you can do now is, what I like to do is I like to right-click, I like to do
set pre-plan threats to your point, and then I like to put down these rings so I
can see exactly the range of that SA-2. And you know, this indicates the maximum
range of the SA-2, this red circle, but I would say about half of that is lethal
range. So this air base is completely in range of that SA-2, and if you were to
fly in there and not defend against those missiles or suppress them, you would
definitely be shot down. So this is just sort of a planning aid, you can put
down these threat circles so you can see exactly what you're dealing with. You
can see to the northeast there's also another SA-2. Now this one, as we do some
terrain analysis here, this one is actually behind a mountain, so if we come in
low, we might be able to avoid that one, but it's still going to be a threat no
matter what. So I'm just going to mark that one as well. And there's additional
SA-2s to the north. So this is a very heavily defended part of the flot because
this is the main approach to Pyongyang. If you break through these air defenses
here, Pyongyang is right up here, so this is all Pyongyang right here. So
they're trying to defend this corridor so we can't just bust in there and start
breaking up Pyongyang. To the west, there's another SA-2 and they're defending
Anjin Air Base. So we'll just put down a threat circle there too. So now I know
essentially what I need in order to deal with this target. We have at least
three SA-2s that are a major threat, so that's going to require a full-sized
SEAD flight. So that's going to require at least four aircraft with harms. We
could potentially accomplish this with two aircraft with harms, but what you
should always over-account for threats when you're dealing with SEAD, because
the SEAD guys have to get in there first, they have to secure the target from
enemy bandits, then they need to deal with the SAMs and AAA. And more often than
not, they're going to run into a surprise when they're there and they're going
to have to waste harms, they might have to do an emergency jettison. Whatever
the case, you always want to over-account for SEAD. So I would recommend for
F-16s to do SEAD here. You could also bring in other aircraft from other
squadrons, such as like an EF-111 to jam the radars and stuff like that, but
that's a bit more advanced. I'm not going to go into that in this video, but
that's something I like to do is I like to bring in EF-111s with like F-15s as
an escort, have them sort of off the shore, jamming everything. For purposes of
this video, we're just going to set up, we're going to use aircraft that are
organic to our squadron. So the main threats are these three SA-2s and this one
over here to the west. There's other SAMs to the north, but they're not going to
represent large threats unless we're flying at high altitude and slowly, which
we're not going to be. The next thing we have to worry about is we have to worry
about, you know, fixing the target. We're going to use AAA emplacements, which
we can't see right now because they're not, we can't see them right now because
we don't have any intelligence on the flot really, but there could be fixed AAA
batteries here, like heart sites. Yeah, see the heart sites are over here by the
flot, so we don't really have to worry about those. So the main threats is we're
going to, you know, what I recommend doing, and this is sort of the threat
analysis part of this, this isn't technical how to do the package, but this is
just me walking through how to like think about how you're going to do the
package, is I would come in from the south, I would come into the south over the
water at relatively low altitude and have the SEAD pop up, engage the air
defenses, have the strike run in low, bomb the air base and then come out to the
ocean. Because the ocean is not a threat. There's no threats in that ocean. The
only thing that could be over there are ships. So what I just did is I just
turned on naval units, combat and supply, and I see that there's an enemy
flotilla, see here, there's an enemy flotilla in the vicinity of Pupori, which
is a city to the southwest of Heiju. Let's go ahead and recon them. Okay. So I'm
going to go ahead and so these are osas. There's two osas in the vicinity of
Pupori, which is a little harbor here city. Now osas are very dangerous. At
close range they essentially have cannons on them, sea whiz, like sort of
automatic point defense weapons, and they also can fire man pads from the deck.
They're a pretty big threat, so what I'll do is I'll put a man pad threat steer
on there to represent the approximate threat range of that target. We could use
like a Roland, yeah something like that. That's the threat of that target. That
won't be a factor as long as we don't egress southwest into it, but there's no
reason we would do that anyway. It's just important that you know about these
things as you're rolling in. There could be also, you know, one threat that
we're not accounting for at this point is there's going to be tons of enemy
bandits in the area. This is the beginning of the campaign. There'll be all
sorts of bandits in the vicinity of this target coming in from the northwest. We
can't really plan for them. The only way we can plan for them is, well in
reality they would set up blocking caps along the enemy air bases that are in
the vicinity of the ingress route, but we don't have the aircraft to do that. So
the one way we can provide security for the package is we'll just simply have an
escort that will follow us into the target area behind the SEAD and will
basically engage any enemy bandits and then egress. Now an escort is different
than a target cap, okay? Escort guys will stay really close to the package.
They'll fly right on the steer points as fragged and they'll engage any bandits
and then leave, okay? And that's the best sort of mission type if you're dealing
with a heavily defended target such as Heiju. Now if the target is not that
heavily defended with air defenses and escorts can just loiter for a few minutes
or maybe even 10 minutes, then you'd use a target cap or tar cap. Now we don't
have that luxury because there's going to be a ton of bandits in the air. I want
to be on and off the target in two minutes tops. I want to hit the target. I
want to be off in a minute, but at maximum we'll allow two minutes. Okay? So now
I know in my head I want to have a SEAD, I want to have an escort, and I want to
have a strike, okay? Realistically this mission would probably be a 30 ship
package or something like that because there's all sorts of threats here, but in
BMS terms we can have maybe a four ship strike, four ship SEAD, four ship escort
and probably be good. So now that's the whole theory of it and I can give you a
four hour lecture on threat analysis. I can give you a four hour lecture on how
we can tie in various assets. I'm not going to go over all of that. That's
something that you'll learn with experience. What I want to go over now is just
simply the mechanics of how to put the package together. So, you know, we're
going to be flying out of Siosan, which is right here. Okay? This is Siosan. I'm
going to turn on names so you can see it. This is Siosan Air Base. We're going
to be flying out of Siosan and the target is here, okay? The target is right
across the bay. So right now in my head I'm just trying to imagine the general
anatomy of this mission, right? We're going to have a SEAD that will come in on
point, we'll have an escort right behind them, then we'll have a strike and
we'll come over the water here. So we'll draw basically a line from there to
there, you know, most direct path. It's about 87 miles. It's an 87 mile hop from
Siosan to Heiju and that's telling me I don't need to have extra fuel tanks
really if I didn't want because that's close enough that we're not going to need
extra fuel tanks. So in my mind I'm trying to imagine how this will go, right?
So I'm imagining it will take off, stay relatively low, come in from the
southeast, you know, we'll come in through this little isthmus here and one
thing you can do is you can actually right click on the map and go to recon and
you can look at it visually to sort of see, you know, what it's going to look
like when you actually run in. I highly recommend doing this, okay? Especially
if you're going to be involved in the strike, you should always do a visual
reconnaissance of the target before you do it. This way when you run in it's
sort of like a visual tape that you're playing back in your memory and you're
referencing visual IPs and you're rolling in off of that. So enough is enough
with the blabber. Let's set up the actual package. Very simple. What do you do?
You right click on the target and this little threat appears in the way. You
right click on the target and you click add package, okay? First thing you're
going to do is you see the takeoff time and the time on target. The time on
target is really not that important, okay? But what is important is the takeoff
time. You want to have your takeoff time at least 20 minutes from the current
time. So right now it's 05.07, okay? We're going to put that to 05.30. So that's
about 23 minutes from now. Then the time on target, we're going to approximate
what we want the time on target to be. I can tell you that 7 minutes is
definitely not enough time to get there. We'll have to use after burners all the
way there to get there. So that's going to be far too short amount of time. And
there's calculators that you can sort of determine your air speed and distance,
what your time on target should be. I'm far too lazy to do that. What I will say
is that this looks like a 15 minute mission. So I put the time on target to
about 545, maybe 547. That looks good. And this is just from my experience of
knowing how fast aircraft go, what not. You can do the math if you want. But
typically speaking, you want to cruise at about 350 knots to 400 knots. That's
your cruise speed and you can sort of calculate the time on target based off of
that. I would say for long range targets, like if we're going for Pyongyang, we
might have a time on target that's about 30 minutes for the takeoff time. If we
have even targets further up north, maybe 45 minutes. You can sort of rough it
because we're going to customize and we're going to jockey around all these
times until we actually get in to the actual meat of planning the package. So
package priority, I don't think that actually does anything. Takeoff time and
time on target, that's fine as is. Then what you're going to do here is this is
the flight screen. This tells you what flights are in the package. So you have a
new button, you have a delete button. The new button adds flights, the delete
button deletes flights. So what we're going to do is we're going to click new.
The first package, or the first flight rather that we're going to add is going
to be out of our squadron. It's going to be an OKA strike. It's going to be a
four ship OKA strike. All you do is you just click OK. So the squadron is
already selected, it will already default to whatever squadron you're in. Size
will be four and it's going to be an OKA strike. So that added the first flight.
We'll just call this on level six. Then we're going to add a four ship SEAD. A
SEAD Escort. OK, SEAD Escort is different from SEAD Strike. The SEAD Escort,
they will follow your package, they'll engage all air defenses and then they'll
return to base. A SEAD Strike is where they actually want to destroy an ADA
position. So if you have a SAM site, they'll actually go in there with CBUs and
actually destroy each individual launcher. They'll try to inflict as much damage
as possible. It's more of an offensive rather than a protective mission. So
we're going to do a SEAD Escort and that will be a four ship too. Then what we
want to do is we want to add an escort. So we'll put in four ships, they
probably won't give us four ships, and we'll try to get four ships and we'll do
an escort. So it gave us two ships, that's fine. So this is a ten ship package.
We have Lobo six, four ship OCA, we've got a four ship SEAD and a two ship
escort, which is Python six. You just click OK. Now what you're going to find is
that the AI has automatically created a plan for you. So let's look at the OCA
strike. Well actually let's do this in order. So the AI has already created the
package for you. At 0522, Panther six will get airborne. Then what you're going
to look at is you're going to look for the second steer point, which is right
here. That's the fence. That's where you actually arm your weapons and fence in
and all that. Sorry, that's the push point rather. The fence is three. But
anyway, two is where the package is marshalled and you push from there as a
package. And you should be in formation by then relative to your position. So
the AI has determined that we head northwest from the air base, push from steer
two. At steer three we then will attack the air base and then we'll egress
southeast. So you're steer four, steer five, steer six. And it's going to be the
same for every flight in the package. The only thing that's different is that
the OCA strike actually has an IP steer point. So there's an additional steer
point here and it should be automatically lined up on the runway. So you can see
that they're essentially doing the approach that I would do for the actual
terminal part of the attack. But the egress and the ingress, I don't really see
the point in that. The ingress is fine, the egress is unnecessary. So I want to
actually modify this a bit. And I also want to modify the takeoff times. So as
you can see now, the CI is going to get airborne, Panther 6 is going to get
airborne at 0522, Escort will be at 0526, and the OCA strike will be at 0530.
And this is just a fact, it's not something that you would know, is that that's
also going to be how the AI has planned the difference in TOT. So if the OCA is
there at 0530, then the C will be there and the CI is taking off at 0522, then
the TOT will be, the time on target will be 8 minutes between the CI getting
there and the OCA getting there. So you can see the TOT right here in the flight
screen on the bottom left, it says TOT, time on target. That's when you're
actually hitting the target, okay? 0543, 46 for the OCA. And that's all that
matters by the way. The most important TOT is when your bombs are on target.
Because at 0543, that target needs to have no bandits on it and no air defenses.
That's when the OCA strike hits it and they come off. If it goes as planned, if
it's a textbook operation, and it's a lot easier to do with humans by the way
rather than playing with AI, but if it goes as planned and it's textbook, then
at 0543, 46, bombs should be hitting the runway and no later than one minute
after that the entire package should be off of the target. So you can see here,
as I said, that the TOT for the C is a lot earlier. It's at 0534. Now, I don't
like that and I'll tell you why. Because that means that between 0534 and 0543,
there's going to be the SEAD will have left and the Escort will have left and
then the OCA is going to be hitting it unsupported at that time. In order to
make this package effective, we need to have it so, I would say at maximum,
there's two minutes per flight on the target. So the SEAD needs to be there
maybe four minutes early. They have four minutes to do their job and then the
Escort is two minutes behind them. They have two minutes to do their job and
then the OCA comes in for two minutes. We can't allow eight minutes on target
for the package because there's going to be so many bandits in the area and the
threat is so high that that's unacceptable. It's too long to be on the target.
That also puts sort of pressure on the SEAD though because that means that they
can't mess around. They have to get in there, find the SAMs and kill them within
four minutes maximum. So we're going to have to modify these steer points. We're
going to have to modify the flight plan. So what I'm going to do is, at the
bottom I'm going to click flight plan. And the first thing I'm going to do is
I'm going to go through, so let's just go over this box. This tells you the
package number, the flight, the steer point number, TOS is time on steer, that's
when they'll be reaching the steer point, airspeed and altitude. If these boxes
are green, if the lock is green, that means that it's locked and that you can't
actually modify, that steer point will be locked and it won't change
automatically. So if you go to like steer two and you increase the time on
steer, so it will take longer to get there, then the airspeed, if the airspeed
is unlocked on the previous steers, it will accommodate that. So you can affect
the entire flight plan, if you leave stuff unlocked, you can affect the entire
flight plan automatically. So yeah, we don't want to do that. So the first thing
we do is when we get into here, and if you click these buttons by the way, it
changes the steer point number. First thing we want to do is we want to go to
every flight and we want to make sure that everything is unlocked except the
first steer point and the target steer point. So you can see here that this is
Lobo 6, the target steer point was not locked. We're going to lock the first
steer point and the target steer point for every flight. You just click the
little lock here and that does it for you. So make sure that there's no other
locked steer points anywhere in the flight plan, that will mess everything up
once you start modifying it. Next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to go and
modify the takeoff times for every flight. So for the Escort, which is callsign
Python 6, I'm going to change them to take off at 523. Rather they're at 5,
whatever they were, 526 or whatever, I'm going to send them to 523. So now
they'll take off one minute behind the SEAD. For the Escort, I'm going to do the
same thing, I'm going to put them off at 524. So now you can see here that the
takeoff times in the package screen have now reflected 522, 535, 524. But
because we locked the target steer point, you can see that since we locked the
target steer point, you can see that the air speeds have been lowered to reflect
that it will take longer to get there. Since we're taking off earlier and the
time on target is the same, it will take longer to get there. So what I'm going
to do is I'm going to change the time on target for the main target so that the
air speed right here is reasonable. So right now I have the Lobo 6 flight
selected and I'm going to update this, I'm going to lower this time on target
until it's reasonable. So 360 knots seems reasonable and you can see that all
these other steer points have been updated as well. I'm actually going to put it
for, yeah, I'll do, so the TOT for the Okinaw is 535. And you can see that if
you walk through the steer points, you can see that they'll take off at 524,
they'll push at 528 and the air speed for pushing is 345 and then 385 for steer
3, which is the fence, and then it's steer 4, which is the IP, it's 330, and
then at the target it's 330. The subsequent steer points, like the exfil steer
points when you're actually flying out of there, isn't that important at this
point. It's really not that important, but the target steer point, leading up to
the target is extremely important and that looks like something that you could
fly, right, that makes sense. Next thing we have to do is we have to modify the
TOTs for the other flights. So we know that right now at 0535, the TOT for Lobo
6 looks good. So now let's go check out Panther 6. So Panther 6 has their
current target time as 0534. And that's not enough time to have them on the
target, so we're going to change it to 0532. What you can see here though is
that these air speeds are a bit too fast, right, 410 knots, 378 knots, to fly on
carrot. That's a little bit too fast. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go
back to the strike, I'm going to go back to the strike, and I'm going to
actually roll the target time to 0536, and just so they're not going slow, I'm
going to roll their takeoff time a bit forward. So now the target time is 0536,
and you can see the air speeds are pretty much the same. I've just put the
target time a bit forward, and I put their takeoff time one minute forward. So
then let's go back to the Sea Desk, where I checked that again, Panther 6. So
they're taking off 0522, good air speed, good air speed, onto the target. So
they'll get there at 0532. Let's go and change it to 0533. So now they have...
Okay, that's good. So now Python 6 will be there at 0538, which is the target.
Lobo 6 will be there at 0530. Sorry, hold on a second, I'm going to throw a
flight. Okay, Panther 6, which is the Sea Add, will be there at 0533, and then
Lobo 6, which is the strike, will be there at 0536, which is good. That's good.
It gives them about almost four minutes, because you can see the seconds are
pretty high on the target. It gives them about almost four minutes to do the Sea
Add. The only thing we have to modify now is the Escort. So the Sea Add, this
one is the easiest one to modify, by the way. So the Sea Add is there at 0533,
059. We just want to have the Escort, we'll say, a minute behind them. So the
Escort is callsign Python 2, or Python 6. We'll put their time on steer to 0534.
So let's go over all this again. So this is the order in which the package is
going to operate. So at 522, the Sea Add is going to take off. Their TOT is
0533. One minute behind them, taking off at 0523, is the Escort Python 6. Their
TOT is 0534. Taking off two minutes behind the Escort at 0525 is the strike,
Lobo 6. Their TOT is 0536. That means that there's approximately four minutes of
action on the target, and then everyone will egress. And the egress steer points
already reflect that. Now, one thing I do want to do is I want to move the
egress route to reflect the route that we already came in. There's no reason to
egress a different direction than we came in. It just exposes us to unnecessary
risks. What if there's something there that we didn't know was there? It doesn't
make any sense. So what I'm going to do is I actually like the egress off of the
target. Let's see here. So... Okay. Okay. Yeah, so the way that the AI has set
up the IP and the attack run is fine. I mean, it's not perfect, but perfection
is something that you'll learn how to modify with practice. So what I want to do
is that the strike will come in off of this little peninsula, roll to the right
of the city, this little town here, hit the target, and then they egress south
to east over the peninsula. With this little isthmus. That's fine, but what I
will say is that after they come off the target, they should probably egress
more towards the west. So I'm going to do like that. So what you can do is if
you want to modify the entire flight plan for the entire package, you can turn
it on so that it will draw every flight's flight plan overlaid when you're
looking at it. So in order to do that, you have to go to air tasking order, turn
on show all packages, and then find your package. So we're going to be under
offensive counter air. And then you just find the package number. We're just
6476. Expand that and then you can see that's our package. Lobo six, panther
six, python six, and then there's a little box here to the right of the package.
You check that it will overlay the flight plan for every flight. So what I like
to do is I like to modify the flight plan for one flight and then use that as a
visual reference to, for instance, I just pulled. This is Lobo six. I just
pulled steer six from there to there. OK, I know that there's another flight
that has steer points there. So what I'll do is I'll go to the escort. You see,
they are stir five is here and I can tell that this is the steer six of the
strike. So I'm just going to drag it onto there. Same thing with the sea. And if
you have everything checked and unchecked, the way I said, if you have the
takeoff time checked, or locked and you have the time on target locked and all
those times are good, then whenever you move the flight plan around, as long as
it's not an extreme change, the airspeed and all that will perfectly make sense.
So then this package is pretty much good to go planning wise. And what I like to
do is I like to go to the flight plan, start at steer one, and then I like to
imagine myself mentally flying this and see if it will work. So this is steer
one, which is on the air base. Right. Look, it's here, too. So they're taking
off northwest this year to the push point at airspeed of three, three, five
knots. That's fine. If they run behind schedule, they can burn a little bit. If
they're ahead of schedule, they can go a little bit slower. Right. That's your
two. Here three is at zero five thirty one. You see the airspeed has increased a
little bit, and that's good because they're approaching a combat speed. You see
the target steer is a combat speed, good speed. And then you can see the egress
steers are a little bit faster, and that's good because we're going to be want
to get out of there quickly. Three ninety knots. That's fine. See, steer five
here and here's your six and steer seven and eight. So the touchdown time is at
zero five forty five. You know, the times in which you leave and land and all
that, to me, that's not really important. The most important thing is when
you're hitting the target and time on the target. Because if that gets messed
up, like let's say the CIA comes too early or they come too late, then the
entire package dies. They have to be there at the right time. The escort has to
be there at the right time. If the escort comes too early, then they get killed
by air defenses. If the OCA comes too early, then they get killed by air
defenses. You know, if the OCA comes before the escort, but after the seed, then
there might be bandits in the air. The bandits might shoot down the OCA. So all
these things have to be planned perfectly. That's the basic way of how you would
set up a flight. Now, the next thing to do is look out, is look at loadouts. So
you can just click through the various flights here. And so I have the CIA
select them. It's going to click loadout. And you see that what the AI has done
is they just like the way they automatically set up a flight plan for you and
all that. They've also automatically given you a loadout, which they think is
reasonable for the target. You know, this loadout isn't too bad. You know, we
have four CBU 87s and we have two AGM 88s. We got some air ordnance. We got two
AIM 120s and two AIM 9s. That's a pretty good. And we have a centerline jammer.
That's pretty good. What I will say is before you even come into the screen, you
have to sort of make a determination if you're going to need external fuel
tanks. I can tell you that we don't need them based upon the range. It's only 80
miles away. That's a very short flight. And, you know, it's unnecessary to have
external fuel tanks. What I will say is that if you can add extra fuel tanks,
though, if you want to have extra fuel to burn. So let's say you want to go
really fast and really, really just go super fast and have the ability to egress
super fast, then you want to add tanks. Then again, if you want to be more
maneuverable and you don't need the extra gas, then you can lose the tanks and
then you'll be able to pull more Gs. And that's always a plus too. So what I'm
trying to determine right now is what does this guy need in order to accomplish
his mission? What does this SEAD flight need? Well, I can tell you right now,
it's going to be a lot of bandits. So because it's going to be a lot of bandits,
I expect there to be. And because we're generally approaching in a very clear
way, we're going to be under the water. And then the bandits will be in front of
us. I don't think we need as many heaters, so we don't need aim nines really in
this operation. I like to always have one aim nine, but I'm going to replace the
aim nine mic that they gave me with an aim nine X-ray, which is a better mic.
And I'm going to add another aim nine or another aim 120 Bravo. The reason why
I'm picking the Bravo and not the Charlie is that the Bravo has a slightly
longer range. And I imagine that there'll be some more BBR engagements in this
beyond visual range engagements and there will be knife fights. As I said, I
always keep a heater. You never know when you're going to be ambushed by a
bandit you didn't see and be in a dogfight. So I always keep a heater. Now we're
going to keep the AGM 88s. Of course, we want to have the harm to those radars.
The CBU 87s, you know, that's that's a judgment call you're going to have to
make. Because the CBU 87s are going to be used to attack launchers. And I think
in this case, we could probably destroy one of the battalions on the runway, but
the AI won't really do that very well. It would do it if you were running the
SEAT and you were dropping the bombs yourself. But otherwise, they're probably
just going to shoot their harms off and they won't bother engaging with the
bombs. In any case, it's hard to say because they do add a lot of drag. Now we
don't have tanks, so sort of offset by that and the drag factor. What we could
do if we want to do more something more conservative is we could just have one
bomb on each pylon. So we have two CBU 87s that will minimize our drag and will
give us some air to ground capability. If we see any pop up targets on the, you
know, if we roll in on the target and there's like a shulk on the end of the
runway or there's a tank battalion or something like that, we can at least use
the bombs to engage them there. CBUs are always good for general purpose threats
that come out of nowhere and are very unpleasant. Now the, so I say we'll do
that. And if you didn't want to do that, you could just add tanks or maybe just
put nothing there. But I would say take in this case, since this flight doesn't
require that much gas, I would say take a couple CBU 87s extra if anything pops
up. Worst comes to worst, they can be jettisoned if we need more
maneuverability. Of course, we want the centerline jammer. That's absolutely
essential. That will essentially make your SEAD flight very resistant to those
SA-2s. The SA-2s have a problem burning through jammers and the SA-5 especially
has a problem burning through jammers. So that's good for the SEAD flight. The
escort is going to be, there's a pretty good loadout for the escort. So they had
four AIM-120s and the two AIM-9s. That's good. I'll keep that as is. We'll just
upgrade the AIM-9s to AIM-9Xs and also give them two tanks just for gas. Just
extra gas. The escort, it's always good to have extra gas on the escort, but the
escort sometimes has to chase people down using afterburners. And other times
they have to chase, they have to quickly move to support someone who's being
ambushed. So I always like to give the escort extra gas. And of course if they
get jumped by SAMs or if they're in a dogfight they can always jettison the
tanks. Okay, the Okra Strike. So you have a few options for the Okra Strike. You
can do a low altitude run using BLU-109s, which are essentially retarded runway
cluster bombs that will totally fuck a runway up. Or you can do a more high
altitude attack. I can tell you that during the Cold War and during the Gulf
War, the BLU-109s and the low altitude Okra Strikes were the standard. And
that's because of the amount of air defenses that could be on the target as well
as our doctrine at the time. I can tell you that since the end of the Gulf War,
zero low altitude runway attacks have been done. They've all been done with
JDAMs and LGBs. But that also assumes that we have complete air supremacy and
also have to suppress all their air defenses. In this sort of operation, which
is one pass, hull, ass, we're going to have to do a low altitude attack with
BLUs. If the BLUs are not available, you can use Mark 82 airs, but I highly
recommend the BLUs. Now, for the Strike, I actually recommend keeping two
heaters, and this is why. The Strike is the most likely to have an aircraft
scramble off the runway and then be right in their face. And if that happens,
they're going to need a heater. They're not going to be doing that much BVR
engagements. In fact, they shouldn't do any BVR engagements. They shouldn't
shoot a single air-to-air missile, but if they do, their two missiles is fine.
This is a pretty good loadout as is. We're not going to add tanks. We don't need
the extra drag. We have six BLUs. That looks good to me. And the centerline
jammer. So now we're good to go. So what you can do now is you can save it. And
let's just save it. Test package. And what I like to do now is this is
technically cheating, but since you're new at this and you're learning to frag a
package, you can do it fine. No one's going to yell at you. It's totally cool.
Your mom will still love you, etc. I like to run this forward on fast and I like
to watch to see what will happen with my package. So I'm running forward. OK,
it's now it's almost 522. In 10 seconds, the CID escort will get airborne. Put
it on 16 times here is the CID escort getting airborne. They're going to steer
to you can see one minute later that the. So there's Panther six. There's Python
six. You can see they're airborne a minute later. Now. At 525, the strike should
get airborne. There's a strike. Lobo six. See ads at the push point. There they
go. They're pushing toward the target. There's a bandit west of the package.
What you do about that. So you can see here now. This is what I mean by push by
the push point is that the entire package is in a good formation, right? This is
the proper distance. They're going the right airspeed. And the six is on point.
A minute beyond them is Python six. Two minutes behind them is Lobo six. You can
see they're approaching the target. Now, at this point, if you had humans, this
would be a great attack, right? Like this, if you were flying this with your
mates, I guarantee you this air base would be destroyed. I don't know what's
going to happen with the AI. Sometimes they'll just RTB for no reason. Who
knows? I can tell you at this point, the air base is about two minutes out from
being attacked. They don't have any ones. No one is scrambled to intercept us.
There's two bandits east of the air base, but they're not heading towards us.
And they're they're in trouble. But yeah, OK, so looks like the let's take the
essay to. OK, it looks like all the sounds are still up, which is to be expected
where the first one's in this area. I'm going to put it on 16 times. Watch what
happens. The Panther six is now in on the target. They're probably shooting
their arms off at this point. You put it on 16 times. Do do do. They're running
in on the target. Let's check to see if they knocked out those. OK, so you can
see here that they fired harms at the one thirty first air defense battalion
that is suppressed. Let's check the one to the west. That one's still up. The
one to the north is still up. See what happens. And the six rolls in. Now
they're off the target, right? Escorts in escort just flew over the target, made
sure there's no bandits. Here comes a strike strike. Rolling in now strikes
rolling in now. Here comes a strike. Boom. Let's see if they hit the target.
They definitely went over the target. Let's see if they hit it. Turn off ground
units. We can actually right click on the runway. Oh, and look, the air base is
being completely destroyed. OK. Now what you'll see is that the package is
egressing. Oh, what happened there is the strike just passed the mid twenty one
that was egressing north. Let's see what happens there. Oh, the strike turned
around and killed them. And the package is now RTB. They're past the fence. And
they're going to land. Let's see. It looks like they're going to land right on
time. Yep, exactly as planned. Perfect execution. And Hadrian Air Base has been
destroyed, not to mention the SAM surrounding it. So that's a EFRAGA package.
I'm sure I missed something there. I'm sure some things are a bit murky. A lot
of this takes a lot of experience, but at least you see the basics now. Please
ask questions. Please let me know if I can help you in any way or clarify
anything and keep your pen pants strong. Hey, guys, it's Krauss here. In this
video, we're going to do a ramp start, and that is starting your jet cold on the
ramp all the way up to taking off from the runway. And we're going to be doing
an abbreviated ramp. And not the full textbook ramp start, which can take much
longer and in my opinion has some unnecessary steps, which I'm far too lazy to
do. So to get started, go to tactical engagement, and then we'll just start the
ramp start scenario. And then just start and click take off. When you start, you
have three options. You have ramp, taxiway and runway. To click taxiway, it will
go down to 20 minutes. It will accelerate time down to 20 minutes. When it
reaches 20 minutes, it will take off. Then what we're going to need to do in
order to start this baby up is we're going to need electrical power, and we're
going to need fuel actually flowing to the engine. So electrical power is on
this panel here, which is ELAC. It's on the left side of the cockpit. Let's go
ahead and click this switch and see what it says. And then we can start the ramp
on the ramp. And when you get to the ramp, you'll see it says ELEC, which is
where we're going to start this baby up. And then when you get to the ramp,
you'll see it says ELEC. which is ELEC, on the left side of the cockpit. Let's
go ahead and click this switch into man power, which is in the up position. That
will start the battery. Then we want to give the engines some fuel. Go ahead and
click the engine feed knob here from off to norm. Fuel's flowing into the engine
now. Now we've got to give it a spark. We're going to do jet fuel start two, JFS
start two, left click there. Now the engine is winding up. You'll actually
audibly hear it. When this engine RPM gauge is at 25%, we're good to go to the
next step. If you wanted to, you could start flipping on all your avionics power
at this point and it will sort of work when everything's in place. As a general
rule of thumb as textbook, let's just wait until it's at 25%. Then once it's at
25%, we can continue. We can fully start up the engine. It's at 25%. Now we can
continue. Okay. What we're going to do is to fully start the engine up and give
this jet full power is we're going to want to rock the throttle out of its
detent position. How you do that is you just move the throttle rapidly until it
breaks out of its detent. You can do that if you don't have a joystick with a
throttle. You can use your keyboard with right shift plus and minus and that
will break it out of its throttle. Once it's out of the throttle, bring it up to
like a 10% or 15% position. Then what you're going to do is you're going to
press the JFS start switch which is this little black thing right here. Just
left click that and then slowly bring the throttle down. Then you'll hear the
engine really crank up. What's happening here is the engine is going up to 70%.
So that your equipment doesn't overheat, we're going to turn on your air
conditioning switches right here. It's easier to see if you use the 3D snap
views. You can see it right here. It's air conditioning under norm. If you
forget to do that, your hardware inside the cockpit can actually overheat and
then you'll get an equip hot warning here. That might actually scrub your ramp
start. So we're at 70% now. We're good to go. What I like to do is at this point
I just start flipping on everything and I might even do it before it's fully
dumb powering on. But the way I'll teach it is like this. First thing we're
going to do is turn on avionics power which is on the right side of the cockpit.
All these switches here into the up position. This switch is your INS switch.
We're going to have to switch that into norm and that will start the INS
alignment. By default this jet cannot really navigate properly until it aligns
its INS system and that takes about 10 minutes. So that's starting now. Then
what we're going to want to do is on the center power panel we just want to put
them all into the up position. Put radar to standby. These other rows are
optional. You don't have to do them. You could do them now if you wanted to. As
this is all going on if we look back to the center of our cockpit we'll see that
stuff is starting to power on. In a few minutes the FCR is going to start doing
a bit test and when the bit test is complete this thing is actually ready to
scramble.
 The bit test is going right now, there's 150 seconds left. When that is done,
when the bit time is over, your jet is combat ready. Basically, the radar can
work. It won't be very good at navigating because the INS alignment isn't
complete, but it can fully use all the radar systems. So let's go ahead and turn
on supporting systems. The most basic thing is over here on the left side, you
have this knob on the auxiliary comms panel. This knob is in backup. We want to
switch that to UFC. That will let you use both the Victor radio and the UHF
radio. Down here, we can turn on our lights if we want. One thing I should note
is that you probably want to have your parking brake on. That's right here.
That's pretty important so you don't roll into people and murder them. Next
thing we want to do is turn on, get power to the ECM system, which is right
here. We want to put it from off into OPR. And we want to turn on our comms now.
See here, this knob here on the main comms panel, we want to switch that on the
main. Then we want to take their comm one, switch from left to right, comm two
switch from left to right. This switch here, MSL, that's actually your missile
growl for a sidewinder. You're going to want to turn that on. This one is super
important. This is a threat knob. This is actually your sound for your RWR. So
if you leave this off and you get in the air, you can actually be shot down by a
Sam and not even know that it's coming. That's all set up. So now let's turn on
the RWR itself. It's right here, this power button under the canopy release. RWR
is powered on. Let's turn on control for all these things. Jammer control, RWR
control, CHEP and flare on. Switch the mode to manual. That's all good. Good to
go. At this point, you're pretty much ready to fly the jet. The only thing
that's remaining is the ejection seat needs to be armed. I'm going to do that by
just putting the switch down here. The ejection seat is now armed. You can pull
on this if you wanted to and you'd pop out of the jet. And you look forward, you
know, the bit's almost on 20 seconds. We do have a invisible HUD. That's sort of
a problem. Press this switch here, which will affect HUD opacity. Left clicking
will increase and right clicking will decrease. And the INS alignment is going.
Let's go ahead and load our data cartridge so we actually have our comms set up
properly and we have our flight plan loaded into the computer. And as I was
about to say that, the FCR is pretty much good to go. We'll switch that from
standby mode into CRM mode. Now combat ready. We'll replace the FCR tab with the
DTE by left clicking under where it says FCR and then selecting DTE. Then click
load. It's going to go through each category in your data cartridge, load
everything. You'll see when that's done, you'll load your radios. And you'll
start to hear comms coming on. And we'll go ahead and replace the DTE back with
the FCR. That's good to go. It is complete. But what happened here? We lost our
INS alignment status. Let's go ahead and press list on the ICP. Press 6, which
will correspond to INS. This is the INS alignment status. When this is flashing,
when the ready is flashing, it's good to go. And on your HUD, you'll see where
it says align. When that's flashing between a line and a number, that's good to
go. When the INS alignment is complete, you can begin to taxi. And what we'll do
is, as a final step, is we'll switch the INS knob from norm to nav, and that
will actually load the flight plan onto your HSD. As a final note, in order to
actually start taxiing, you need to turn on your nose wheel steering with the
right shift forward slash. And you'll see that here. That's another steering
indicator. And to actually... So basically, your jet is actually stopped right
now by chocks. They're actually blocking your wheels from moving. So you'd have
to ask the tower to disengage the chocks, which would be through the Tango or T
key, T, and then 8 for install or remove chocks. So that's pretty much... That's
pretty much that. And now let's go ahead and do it a lot faster. Let's do a
little... Do a little... Start the engine. While it's going on, I can do all the
other stuff pretty much out of order. If you have the UFC knob on, turn that on.
Why not? Comm 1, Comm 2. Missile. Threat. Let's switch on my parking brake.
Switch that to man. Check this. Our pan's around 25. Throttle. Throttle forward.
Back. Turn the air conditioning on. Switch on avionics power. Pan this alignment
to norm. Sensor power on. Radar to standby. Switch on chat flare. Manual ECM
profile. That wasn't good. Okay, radar and gamma on. Let's go ahead and turn on
my lights. Why not? Okay, it's going. With the data cartridge. Data cartridge
loaded. We need a tower. Lower that comm so we can hear it. Okay. Let's switch
the hot opacity on. Switch back to the FCR. Got 125 seconds to bid. Seat's
unarmed. Let's go ahead and arm the seat. Pretty much good to go. Now we just
gotta wait for INS alignment. Half. It's going. It's a lot smaller number this
time. Or a lot larger ratio because I went way faster. Alright guys, so at this
point, you can see that ready is flashing on my DED on the INS page. You also
have a line flashing on the HUD. What we're gonna do is we're just gonna down
here, we're gonna switch the INS knob from norm to nav. At this point you'll see
the flight plan is loaded onto my HSD. And we can now navigate as per usual. So
I'm just gonna do a taxi now. So first thing I'm gonna do, turn on my nosebleed
steering. I'm gonna ask the air crew to remove my chocks. Chocks are removed.
Excuse me a second while I put on my track IR. Okay. I'm gonna go ahead and
disengage that parking brake. Slowly increase the throttle. Good morning. One
three. Clear for landing. Check gear down. Coat rack one. Coat. This is climate
runway one eight. Icon one one, current time power. Taxi clear for runway. Hi
guys, Kraus here. This is another Falcon 4 BMS tutorial. In this tutorial we're
gonna be going over some more advanced features of planning a package. This
video comes on request of Hattoruzoku who had commented on my original package
planning video. Which you should watch before you watch this one. And he had
asked to see some more advanced functionality in regards to planning a package.
So he specifically asked to see the functionality for an EF-111 or other
electronics warfare aircraft. To see that, how that's implemented in BMS. For
those that don't know the theory behind it, it's possible for an electronics
warfare aircraft such as an EF-111 Sparkvark or EA-6 Prowler. To point a
directional jamming radar at another radar and to disrupt its functionality.
What that does is you can suppress enemy air defense radars within a large area.
And then you can penetrate airspace that you otherwise wouldn't be able to
because it's too dangerous. So in this video we're gonna set up a raid on like a
nuclear plant or maybe a radar station. And we're also going to include in that
package a flight that will jam the enemy radars and render them ineffective. And
we're also going to include an escort for those ECM aircraft. And we'll probably
do some more advanced package stuff at the end of this video but that's the
first part we're gonna start with. So I'm just gonna go ahead and I'm gonna
start a Tiger Spirit campaign. And this is in the Korea Theater. And I'm gonna
find some ECM aircraft and some fighter aircraft and some strike aircraft. So I
know that Hattaro had asked to see some EF-111s. But in the Korea Theater by
default there is only Prowlers, there's EA-6s. But for purposes of this video
they have the exact same functionality as the EF-111s except in one important
regard. The Prowlers can actually do seed as well so they can actually carry and
shoot harms. But that's not where their strength lies, I mean an F-16 can do
that, that's not a big deal. But they can jam and do ECM just like a SparkVar
can do. Traditionally speaking in Falcon the SparkVar's are included in European
theaters and the Prowlers are included in Pacific and Asian theaters. If you
want you can add an EF-111 squadron to any campaign by using TAC edit. But
that's a topic for another video. So what I'm gonna do here is I need to find an
ECM squadron, strike squadron, fighter squadron. So we have the 136 out of
Seoul, they're an EA-6 Bravo which is Prowlers. And then to the west we have the
14th squadron F-16 out of Kimpo and the 67th squadron F-15 Charlie out of Kimpo.
So what I'm gonna do to start off is I'm going to disable the ATO for all three
of those squadrons. And I wouldn't recommend doing that in general. After you
plan your package you should probably turn the ATO back on because at least for
the squadrons that you're not gonna be flying out of regularly. And that's
because you don't want to keep all those aircraft grounded when they could
otherwise be tasked by the AI to actually do stuff that is needed by the
campaign. Otherwise you might lose the campaign. So I'm just gonna turn off the
HQ for those three squadrons. That's not what I want to order a battle. And
let's go ahead and turn them off for the ones that are at Kimpo as well. Okay,
now we're good. Go ahead and run the clock forward a little bit. Excellent. Now
let's find us a target. Alright, so looking around immediately I see some juicy
targets that will probably be heavily defended. Got two nuclear plants right
here. One here, the Pakchon and one to the east of that, Yeonggwon, both of
which are gonna be heavily defended by SAMs. But there should be more heavily
defended targets. And I want to pick the most heavily defended target to
basically show you how ridiculous and how decisive ECM can be in an actual
package. So this looks pretty damn heavily defended. This is Hwangsan, I think?
Oh, it's Hamhung. Okay, we have Hamhung here. Hamhung is heavily defended. I see
at least five SAM batteries that are overwatching this nuclear plant. So this
would actually be a great target. If we really wanted to make it more
challenging we would probably take out this Hamju headquarters. Which is another
super heavily defended area. And I guarantee you there's probably bandits on
Pakchon, which I'm gonna check right now. Okay, so there's no bandits there on
the target area itself. That's out of range, pretty much. Okay. Iwan is... Okay,
so there's a MiG-23 squadron out of Iwan to the northeast. We'll put a threat
steer on that. Put an airbase threat steer on that. Base defense zone, whatever
you want to call it. That's potentially a factor. Hwangsuwan, also MiG-21s out
of there. And... I just turned on the heat. That's pretty much it as far as
bandits are concerned. Thinking, probably not good to have been very cold. Now
let's draw up these air defenses. We have SA-2s. We have another SA-2. What is
that? There's ships there too. What sort of ships are those? Oh, those are OSAs.
OSAs aren't that dangerous. I mean, they are if you're flying low, but not so
much if you're at high altitude. This is probably another SA-2. Surprise,
surprise. And again, you always want to do this before you plan a package. You
want to get an idea of what's in the area. And you also want to, once you
actually put the package down, you also want to check the briefing to see if
there's anything unstated that might be in the area. SA-3 that's not really in
the threat area. Another SA-2. Lots of SA-2s, guys, and they're all overlapping
on that target. And that leads me to believe that that's their main thing that
they're defending by being in that area. We'll put down some man-pad rings on
the actual OSAs just to try to avoid those. So, what is that? Is that an SA-5?
No, that's an SA-3. It's somewhat in the area of operations. Let's go ahead and
include that too. And I don't see any SA-5s, which is weird. They usually have
SA-5s. Oh, there's one. It's probably just going to be, just going to be a
little bit of a surprise. There's one. It's probably just going to be, just
going to be a factor. Yep, just on the edge of the target area. Okay, let's go
ahead and turn the threat circles off. So now we can see this is literally a
hornet's nest. This is hell on earth. You would not want to fly in here without
serious seed and without some serious backup. The bandit situation is not that
bad. I mean, it could be bad. There could be MiG-23s and MiG-21s intercepting
us. But the really big threat that I see is all of these SAMs. There's at least
six SAMs directly overlapping on the target. You know, that SA-5 is probably a
minimal threat because it's such a long-range shot and the SA-5s are pretty
shitty. All those SA-2s in the area can hit the target. And if we fly too low,
we're going to have problems with the OSAs as well. And there probably is other
stuff in that, in HamHong, that we can't even see. So all of those things are
going to cause complications. Luckily for us, we have prowlers. All right, so
now let's get down to the nitty-gritty details of planning this package. The
first thing we're going to do is we're going to make the strike package
elements. We're going to make the three flights attached to the package. So what
I'm thinking is we'll have a four-ship strike, four-ship seed escort, and a two-
ship escort. I would like to have a four-ship escort, but they're only going to
give us ten ships because it's a twelve-ship squadron. And they always reserve
two of the fighters for alert duties. Then we'll have a two-ship prowler, ECM
flight, and a four-ship F-15 half-cap, which is a high-value escort cap. So I'm
just going to right-click on the nuclear plant. And let's go ahead and... Is
that what I want? I want this. Okay, so this is where we're taking off from.
We're taking off from Seoul and then Kimpo to the west. I'm just going to use
the ruler, and I'm going to get a rough idea of how far away this is from... So
the 151 miles to the target, linear. But we're not going to be flying linearly.
It'll be a little bit longer than that because we're going to be coming in from
the water. So that will be about 25 minutes to fly that distance. So what I'm
going to do now is I'm going to do add package. Let's take off at 8.25. And then
we'll add 25 minutes to that. So the time on target will be 8.50. And first
things first, let's select the F-16 Block 50s out of Kimpo for a four-ship
strike. Target being the Hamheung nuclear plant. Looks good. Then what we're
going to do is we're going to do a seed escort. And they're going to be, if for
whatever reason the ECM fails, the seed escort will deal with any sims that are
still active. And what's important here is that you set the target to be Weasel
1, which is the strike. This way they'll provide a seed escort on the strike
specifically, not the whole package or other nearby flights. So that's set. Then
we want to have an escort. And the same thing for target. You want to set that
to Weasel 1 as well. And they gave us two ships, which I figured would be as
much. So this is normally what you would be doing. But since this is an advanced
tutorial, we're going to add in the ECM now. So let's go ahead and select EA-6s.
And the EA-6 squadron is only four ships. The entire squadron is four ships. We
could potentially use one ship for this whole mission. I'm going to be on the
safe side. I'm going to use two ships. And the mission role will be ECM. And the
target will be north of Hamheung. We're going to adjust the target once we
actually get in. So that's fine. That looks good. Then what we want to do is we
want to get F-15 Charlies to escort those Prowlers. Out of Kimpo we have the
67th. We'll do a four ship. And we'll do a half cap. Half cap is, as I said,
it's like a high value escort mission where they'll stay really close to the
target that you have the half cap set for. It's usually used on tankers and
J-Stars. And they're going to follow a close escort. They won't go too far from
the people they're escorting. And they'll make sure they stay alive. The target
here is going to be Prowler 1. And that's when we want to select the Prowler
flight. There we go. Four ships fine. Good. Now, the defaults. Let's see. Let's
go ahead and check this package out. It's package 5003. Check out the strike
ingress plan. So this ingress plan is okay. The egress plan is horrible. We're
going to be ingressing through some threats unnecessarily. And we're going to be
penetrating their airspace unnecessarily while flying very close to SA-3s that
could fire on us. And we're going to be egressing over extremely heavily
defended airspace. So what we're going to do is we're going to change that. But
first we sort of need to understand the general anatomy of this operation. So
how is this all going to work out? The way it should work out is that we should
have the ECM come on station first. And the half cap should be right behind
them. Like 30 seconds behind them. Then behind them should be the seed escort,
the strike, and then the escort. So another thing is, looking at this, I think
the best way to do it would be to ingress from the southeast. And that's because
there's no threats out here in the ocean. We can come in from the southeast and
then flow in northwest and then come off south. That would be the best way of
doing it. So we'll use this box, the 09 box. And for reference, 09 is not a grid
coordinate. This actually tells you the maximum altitude of terrain in that box,
which would be 900 feet. We're going to use the 09 box as our push point area.
So let's go ahead and just set up the strike and seed escort and escort first.
So as usual, we're going to lock all the steer 1s for every single flight. I
don't want to have to deal with that getting messed up. Lock all the steer 1s.
Then let's go to weasel 1, which is the strike. And let's put the push point
right there. That looks fine. And let's put... That looks all fine, the way that
looks. Let's get the seed escort. And turn on steer point 1 so we can see where
that was. Steer 2 there. That looks fine. Actually, now that I look at it, it
doesn't look fine. Let's go back to the escort and strike for a second. We're
going to change the ingress route so that we're going to not overfly this SA2
directly and the OSES directly. We'll change it so it's like this. That's way
better. And we'll also change the egress route so it's like that. Let's go to do
the same on the escort. I'll just turn on steer lines again so we can see the
overlay. Or sorry, the seed escort. And then what we'll do, move this to here.
Move this here. Move that there. And then, get the same thing for the escort.
Move this to here. Move this to here. Move the egress so it's not stupid. Just
like that. So we're going to be coming in from the southeast. We're going to be
threading a needle here. We will be very close to the SA2 but it shouldn't be a
factor because of the seed escort and the ECM. I'm also moving the egress that
way as well. Alright, that looks good. Let's go and check out the ECM flight.
ECM pushpoint is here. So as you can see, I don't know if you can see this, it's
very cluttered, but they have two patrol points where they're going to be
actually jamming. This is no good. As we said, the ECM does not have to be
exactly on the target. In fact, it has like a 50 mile range. I don't know the
exact range, I don't know if anyone does either. But it's like a 50 mile range,
it's a massive range and they don't have to be anywhere near the target in order
to jam all those SAMs. They can be out in the middle of the ocean. So what we're
going to do is fundamentally change this flight plan. We don't need a steer 3,
that's useless. So we're going to delete that and then we're going to move steer
3 and steer 4 to there. So basically what they're going to do is they're going
to fly a jamming patrol between steer 3 and steer 4. And I'm just going to
change claw as well to do that. Move steer 2 to the push point. Delete steer 3.
I'm going to get a new steer 3. And what I'm going to do for these guys is I'm
going to put their patrol pattern a little bit ahead of the Prowlers by not
much. Ultimately they're always going to stay with the Prowlers. That's what
they're going to focus on. Okay, now let's check the times. So again, the order
of the package should be ECM should arrive, the half cap should arrive, the seed
escort should arrive, the strike should arrive, and then the escort should
arrive. So let's check the strike time because that's what we're going to base
everything off of. The strike TOT right now is 850. The seed escort time is 846.
And the escort time is 846. Okay, why... looks like the strike is going to be on
the target before... Okay, the target time for the strike is 850. And the seed
escort is... what's Cobra? 846. Okay, that means that the escort and the seed
escort will be on target 4 minutes before the strike is, or about 3 minutes, and
then the escort will be on target. That's fine. I mean, it could be tweaked.
Ideally you want there to be like a minute between each action because when
you're attacking a heavily defended airspace you want to be in there as little
as possible. But that's fine because we're not really flying with humans and
it'll be okay. For the ECM, let's check them out. So they're going to be at
steer 2, which is basically their target time, right? Their target time is
basically steer 2 because we want them to be actively jamming by the time they
get over that steer point. Because this area here is where the jamming really
needs to take place. So we need them to be there by the time the seed escort is
in hot. So the seed escort again, in hot at 846. That means that I want them, I
want the prowlers at their steer 3 by 845. What I'm going to do is I'm going to
use steer 3 as their TOT so to speak, target time. I'm going to change that to
845. And we're going to do a 10 minute patrol. So they'll be there from 8...
hold on, what did I do? Okay, that's fine. So we're going to be doing, from 845
to 855 they're going to be jamming. And let's check. And we need to be jamming
until the weasel flight gets to their egress point. So the egress point... okay,
let me explain what I just did. I selected the strike flight because the strike
guys are going to be the last guys out. So their egress point is steer 7. That's
basically where they're going to meet up with the package of the egress. Their
egress time is 857. So what I'm going to do is I want to be jamming until at
least 857. That's so all the guys that go into the strike, they're protected. So
I'm going to go back to the ECM flight. And I see they're going to start jamming
at 845. And they have a 10 minute jam, which means that's not long enough.
Because 10 plus 45 is 55. So let's make that into 12 minutes. 12 minute patrol.
Okay. That means between steer 3 and steer 4 they're going to be floating around
there for 12 minutes. Just jamming, jamming, jamming. By 857 they're going to
stop jamming and then they're going to RTB. Which is fine. And we also need to
reflect that in Claw as well. So Claw's TOT is going to be 845 as well. And
they're also going to do a 10 minute patrol. Or what was it? It wasn't 10
minutes. It was 12 minute patrol. Good. So that means by 845 we'll have the
F-15s right here. The Prowlers right here. And then one minute behind them
you're going to see the SEED escort here at the push point in the center of
vicinity. And then the whole F-16 flight is going to fly in behind them. So
you're going to have 10 F-16s flying in behind them. Which should be good. Next
thing we want to check off is the takeoff times for Claw and Prowler. So it
looks like Claw's taking off 7 minutes later. I don't know why that is. Let's
see. I want them to be in the air at the same time. So I'm going to change Claw.
Prowler's taking off at 821. Let's change it so Claw's taking off at 821 as
well. So it's just going to be a slow flight to S2. And that's because it
doesn't take them that long to get there. I counted for 25 minutes because
that's for getting to the target. But it doesn't take them that long to get to
S2. So that's fine. They'll just do a really slow flight over to S2. What I
could do to improve the airspeed is I could Rolex the entire package so they
attack sooner. But I'm too lazy to do that and it's fine as is. So that looks
good. So they're going to take off at 821. They're going to be on target at 845.
Prowler's taking off at 821. They'll be on target at 845. Let's go check the
guys over here. So Cobra is the escort. Cobra 1. Cobra 1's taking off at 822.
Behind them is going to be the escort at 824 and the strike at 826. TOT for the
seed is 846. 848 for the escort and 850 for the strike. I don't like being on
target for 4 minutes. Should be fine actually. It's a heavily defended airspace
so we sort of need some time to fight our way in there. I'm going to make the
TOT for the strike the same as the escort. The reason for that is that will give
the seed 2 minutes to get to the target. And then the escort and the strike will
have 2 minutes on the target as well. So on the strike I'm going to change the
TOT to 848. Good. So now the seed and the escort will be on target at the same
time. Which is pretty much what it is. So I'm going to make the TOT for the
strike the same as the escort. Good. So now the seed and the escort will be on
target at the same time. Which is pretty much what it should be anyway. And the
seed will be there 2 minutes earlier. And 1 minute before that you'll have the
ECM's on station. The last thing we need to do is for the ECM there's 2
different things they can do to jam. There's an in route action and there's an
action on steer point. Now jamming doesn't take their attention away. So they
can be jamming while they're flying from one steer point to another. So for
every single steer point we're going to have them jammed. There's no reason to
do an in route non jamming. So for steer 2 in route action jamming. Steer 3 is
jamming jamming. Jamming jamming. Steer 5 in route action jamming. Action is
split. We're not going to be changing the action. We're just going to change the
in route action to jamming. So the whole time they're flying other than the
steer points for landing and taking off they're jamming. Next thing I'm going to
do, and I really wasn't going to do this because it's a detail that we already
went over in the first video. But I will go over it in this video as well. So
the first thing I'm going to do is the loadouts. So let's start with the seed
escort. They should have harms. I can see here the AI gave them CBUs and that's
a no go. Because we're not going to be dropping cluster bombs. I'm going to give
them two tanks instead so they can maneuver faster. And the air to air loadout
is fine. The escort is fine. They have two heaters and four long sticks. The
tanks as well. And the strike. Okay this is a retarded loadout. The strike has
AGM 65 gulfs. Now these can be used against buildings but they're not ideal. So
let's give them some GBUs. I have no idea why the AI selected that. Let's give
them some GBU 24s. And tanks. By default the steer points will call for a medium
altitude ingress and attack. Normally that would be like a suicide intermission
like this without the ECM. But you know considering we have a four ship seed
escort. Considering we have the ECM they can do a normal altitude attack fine.
It won't be a big deal. Now for the ECM they can only carry jammers and harms.
So you can see here they have five stations for jammers. I'm going to load them
all out with jammers. They can carry tanks but we already have a lot of fuel as
is. So we're fine. Now you can see here they can carry harms. But they'll only
use the harms if they're in a seed escort capacity or in a seed strike capacity.
And that's not the strength of this aircraft. The strength of this aircraft is
jamming. F-16s, F-18s, F-15s they can all do... Well they can all shoot harms.
Actually the F-15 can't. But the F-16, F-18 can shoot harms. They do that roll
fine. And you don't need this aircraft to shoot at radars. The other aircraft
don't have jammers. These guys do. So we're going to just leave them a bunch of
jammers. And the F-15 loadouts is probably fine. They're always fine for AI
usually. They rarely fuck those up. Yeah that's fine. I could give them a little
bit more fuel. I'll give them a centerline tank. And that looks fine. So last
thing I like to do is I like to pick the flight that's in the heaviest part of
the fighting. And I like to check the briefing from them. That will tell me if
there's any threats that I missed during the threat analysis. Okay so I see here
that there's SA-10s 5 nautical miles south of Yongsodong. That is very alarming
to me. Let's find Yongsodong on the order of battle. So many names. Where is it?
Here it is. Okay so that's right in the area of operations. And it's at 5
nautical south. I guarantee you it's on top of this mountain. But I'm going to
use the ruler to make sure. Yep. SA-10 right here. That is a massive threat to
the package. And it's guarding this radar station here. The Yongsodong radar
station. That being said, it is going to be at a max range shot. And it will be
hopefully suppressed by the ECM. And potentially the SEED escort can take a shot
or two at them as well. So I'm not too worried about that SA-10. The mission for
it is probably to defend the radar station anyway. So it probably won't be
trying to aggressively shoot at aircraft at max range. So I'm pretty happy with
all of this. The final thing I always do is I always just go through all of the
steer points. Make sure they're not retarded. None of the flight airspeeds are
retarded. Or any of the steers are broken. They all look good. Check out
Prowler. Prowler's good. You know, the only real flaw in the design of this
package is that the Prowler and the F-15s are going to be at a slow airspeed.
But that shouldn't be a big deal. They're probably not going to be in contact
anyway. And they'll speed up if they are. Yep. That looks fine. That all looks
fine. Alright. Let's save this and let's run it. So let's go ahead and select
the ECM. So at 821 these guys should take off. And then the F-15s should take
off at the same time. There they are. See the F-15s there and the Prowler there.
Prowler there. Okay. Okay. Okay. So the package is now attacking the target. You
can see the F-15s flying a cap right ahead of the ECM. And the Prowlers are
currently jamming. All of these SAMs are probably suppressed right now. There's
no way to tell from this screen, but you'll know if the package takes any
casualties. That's the way we'll know. So, seed escort is in now, in hot. And
comes in the target, is off. Here comes the escort and the strike. Flowing out.
You can see here the ECM and the F-15s are still flying a patrol. And there's
the last of the F-16s. You can see them immediately start flying home after
that. Right after 857. Yep. Let's see. So they're still flying a little patrol
there. And now they're going to return to base. You can see there's some MiG-21s
that have launched to actually intercept these guys. Here comes the F-15s
engaging them. And that's the end of the package. Let's see what we hit. Did we
hit the target? So, target is completely destroyed. And I'm pretty sure we
didn't take any casualties, although the F-16s already landed, unfortunately. I
think. Yeah, the F-16s already landed. I'm fairly certain we didn't take any
casualties. The only flaw I noticed in executing that was the steer two times
should have been a little bit later for the F-16s. And that's because the whole
package arrived at the same time. And I sort of wanted the ECM and the F-15s to
be there about two minutes early, but that's fine because they were jamming the
entire time anyway. And they remained jamming there until the F-16s flew out.
Let's check out the BDA on the actual SAMs to see if they fired any harms. So,
all these SAMs still have their radars and that points to the fact that they
were being jammed. And you can see there's a lot of moving mud on that target.
There was engineers there, tank battalion, all sorts of shit. HQ battalion. I'm
just checking all these SAMs to see if they fired any harms. This one had harms
fired at it. This SA-2 here on the east side of the target area had harms fired
at it. Other than that, they didn't really have a need to fire any harms. Yep.
And the SA-10 isn't visible which means it didn't even light up, didn't turn on
and start emitting. So, that package was a success. So, if you guys liked this
video, I'll do another one for you. And I'll see you guys in the next one. Bye!
I'm going to do a follow-up video on another advanced type of package planning,
but there you are for ECM. Welcome to my second Falcon BMS 4.32 air-to-air
refueling tutorial. To be a little more comprehensive, I'm going to talk about
finding the tanker as well as actually hooking up. And I'm also going to give
you some more advanced tips for formation keeping with the tanker. So, the first
thing is if you're in a normal campaign or a TE or whatever, you're going to
need to be able to find the tanker without being directly behind it. So, there
are two ways we can do this and I'm going to start with the easier way. And that
way is you just repeatedly call the AWACS and ask what direction the tanker is
from you. And every time that direction changes, you simply change to the new
bearing. So, I'm going to unpause the sim and show you that now. I'm going to
queue to see the AWACS and you actually have to go to the second AWACS menu and
then hit the number 4. I'm just listening for a bearing from the AWACS. So, if
you look at 290, all the way up there is the tanker. However, I want to show you
a little bit more complex way to find it and that is using the TACAN. And as you
heard, the AWACS totals the TACAN channel and by default for the first tanker in
any TE or any campaign, it's going to be 290 Yankee. So, I'm going to pause the
sim and show you how to set your TACAN channels. The first, the primary way is
in your upfront controls through your ICP and DED. So, the first thing you need
to do is go up and hit the number 1 for ILS. And up in the top left here, you'll
see, you'll get this looking, this ILS page, TACAN ILS page on the DED. So, now
we need to put in the channel which is 290 and Yankee, which we, as you can see,
it's on the X band right now. We need to change it to the Yankee band, which we
do by hitting 0 and then entering it. Just switch to the Yankee band. And
finally, we need to change it from TACAN TR, which is for ground, TACAN AA,
which is for air to air. So, there we go. And I just hit the sequence key right
there. One major thing to note is in a campaign where you're going to have
probably three or four tankers airborne at a minimum at one time, the TACAN
channels work a little bit differently and you'll have to go find them.
Basically, they don't just continue in order 29030 and 031. But as long as you
listen for the tanker TACAN channel while you're calling the AWACS, you just
input that into your DED and you'll be all set. So, the next thing we need to do
is I'll show you the backup way to input TACAN channels into your TACAN. So,
over here we have the TACAN panel. And as you can see right now, the source is
set to UFC, Upfront Controls. However, we can set it through this panel here if
we set it to backup. And we just do the same thing we were doing a second ago.
And there we go. So, now we're on 029er Yankee. And this is showing us as, we
have to switch to TACAN mode here, showing us 15 miles from the tanker. So, that
is basically how you're going to find the tanker. You're going to talk to the
AWACS and get its bearing. And you can use the TACAN to get its distance, which
will help you light it up on radar, especially if you're 30 or 40 miles away
from the tanker. If you just basically come to the right bearing and you're
looking at this, whatever this distance that it's giving you from the TACAN, you
start scanning with your radar, you should be able to pick out the AWACS.
Sometimes the airspace will be pretty busy and you'll have some trouble. But if
you just continue asking the AWACS for bearing, it'll give you that. One thing
is you can see that right now the TACAN is giving me a bearing to the tanker.
That's because that's a KC-10 out there. The typical tanker you'll experience in
the campaigns is a KC-135, and that will not give you its bearing. It will only
give you its distance. So, basically you need to know that you can always call
the AWACS to get vector to the tanker. So, the next thing we need to do is
actually go fly over to the tanker. So, I'm going to unpause the SIM, and I'm
going to do that now. And we'll start again when we're 10 nautical miles behind
the tanker. So, as you can see from my TACAN, I'm now 10 miles from the tanker.
I'm actually flying an intercept course 10. I'm not flying up right behind him.
But essentially it doesn't matter which direction you're coming from. Once you
get within 10 miles, you can radio the tanker and tell them that you're coming
for fuel. And this is the only way to get to the tanker. So, I'm going to go fly
over to the tanker. And I'm going to go fly over to the tanker. And I'm going to
go fly over to the tanker.
 radio call you need to make until you actually have received all your fuel and
you come off the tanker. So once you go within 10 miles, and one key thing to
note here is that if you're within 10 miles, you're called to the boom and then
you leave the 10 mile radius again, you will be automatically removed from the
list of craft that are coming up to fuel at the tanker. So if there's anyone
behind you, you'll have to get in line behind them. So if you're going to fly
within 10 miles of the tanker and call the tanker, stay within 10 miles and get
up to the boom. Otherwise you'll have to get a new place in line. So the way we
do this, I'll unpause the sim and show you, we just hit Y to get to the tanker
menu and 1. And we're listening for the tanker to call our call sign and then
tell us we're clear to the pre-contact position. Cowboy 11, channel 11, you are
clear to pre-contact position. So now that we've heard a radio call, we're going
to keep driving in towards the tanker. But this is about the point where we need
to start being careful of our speed. Probably in the campaign you won't be
pushing full afterburner at 645 knots just to get to the tanker. But you do need
to be somewhat careful of your speed here. I'm about 7 miles behind the tanker.
And this is fine, but you need to just be mindful of your speed, especially once
you get to within 1 nautical mile of the tanker. If you've never tanked at the
tanker before, a handy thing to note is that you can put your fire control radar
into trackwall scan mode. And then you can lock up the tanker, go to air-to-air
mode, and you can see your overtake on the tanker and your approximate distance,
which is the F pole down there. That's not your actual distance, in fact,
because that takes in the time, missile time of flight. But essentially, you're
more than 7 nautical miles away. At this point, you've got kind of all the tools
in front of you that you need to get up to the tanker if you've never done this
before. I'm going to do it once with all these tools turned on and enabled, and
then I'm going to show you again how to do it just visually, turning off the
HUD, outlocking all the radar, and just driving up behind the tanker and looking
for visual cues. This first time, I'm going to use all the fancy handy-dandy
tools that the F-16 provides for you. So I'm going to now drive into 1 nautical
mile behind the tanker, and at 1 nautical mile behind the tanker, my goal
airspeed is going to be 400 knots, or thereabouts. As you can see, I'm now about
a mile behind the tanker. I'm a little bit higher than my goal airspeed, but I
can deal with that between here and the tanker pretty easily. So one major thing
right now is we need to make sure our fuel door is open. That switch is found on
the left side of the cockpit, behind the throttle, right below this canopy
jettison. As you can see, it's called air refuel. It needs to put in the up and
open position. You can ensure it's actually in that position by looking on your
right indexer. You should have a blue RDY illuminated, and as long as that is
blue, you're all set to go in to the tanker. So one important thing is when
you're behind the tanker, you really need to control your overtake, and you
should note that not every tanker is going to fly the same speed, so take this
all to grain of salt. However, these are the goal airspeeds I shoot for.
Obviously, right now, I'm supposed to be about 400 knots. When I get 3,000 feet
behind the tanker, so 50% of the way there from my current position, I'm going
to cut my speed to 370 knots. When I get to 1,000 feet behind the tanker, I'm
going to cut my speed to about 330 knots. It's important that you maintain some
closure on the tanker at that point, because right behind the tanker, there's an
area of jet wash that produces a lot of turbulence. It's fairly unpleasant if
you are very low air overtake speed. You're going to sit in that jet wash for a
long time. It's going to bounce you around. One thing you can do to avoid that
is pull up in that observer position on the left wing, and then slide in behind
the tanker. Or you can come up very low under the tanker and pull up into it.
However, I'm just going to drive straight in, because it's what I do every time.
It's something you can get used to, and I find it's a little bit quicker for me
at least. As I said, one nautical mile is 400 knots. 3,000 feet is about 370
knots. 1,000 feet, 330 knots. Maintain that until you're about 300 feet behind
the tanker, and you're out of that jet wash. Then you just throttle back about
315 knots, and pull up right into the pre-contact position. I'm going to unpause
the sim, and I'm going to just pull up behind the tanker, control the overtake.
As you can see, I'm aiming for a spot kind of underneath the tanker. Sometimes
I'll aim more for the end of the fuel boom, but as long as you're kind of ending
up in a spot that's low there, that's underneath the boom, and kind of right
behind it, you're pretty much in the right position. I'm going to pull up into
the pre-contact position now. You can see I'm getting a little bit bounced
around by the KC-10's jet wash. It's a little bit hard with another fighter
sitting right in the quick fuel position too, but these are all things you can
deal with if you just keep your eyes on the tanker, and try and control your
overtake. Now your job is just to fly right through the tip of that boom, and up
until the director lights at the front of the aircraft have no lights
eliminated. Here you just want to stabilize once you see no lights eliminated,
and there we go, plugged in. So I just want to stop here for one second and
explain the director lights. As you can see, there's two lines. On the right
side we have F and A, left side D and U, and that stands for for, aft, down, and
up. Remember, these are commands. They're not telling you where you are in
relation to the plane, they're telling you where you need to go. So if you see
one of those go red, so for instance, if I drop down a little further and the U
light goes red, I need to move up immediately. There's also this nice stripe
down the middle of the aircraft. On the KC-135 it's even bigger and longer, and
it's very hard to miss. It makes it fairly easy to maintain your position. But
as you can see, if I just zoom out here, I'm in this nice position right under
the tanker, and I can just look up and maintain this for basically forever. I
don't really need to look at the director lights, I don't need to look at my
HUD. I just look up and I see the engines and the belly of the plane, and I can
pretty much keep myself centered just sitting here, even if the sims unfrozen.
I'll just kind of show you that for a second. Here we need to go up a little. So
if I'm just looking at the plane and I'm making my small inputs, I can basically
ignore everything that's on my HUD, all my instruments, and I'm just looking at
that jet, making sure I'm staying in the right position. So unfortunately I
filled up on fuel right there, but that means I'm done. So I'm going to pull off
the tanker, and I'm just going to throttle back a little bit and fall on his
right wing in the reformed position. And the major thing to do here is you need
to clear the next plane in by saying you're done with fuel, or done refueling.
And you do that by hitting Y and then the number three. So you see this bot is
flying basically the perfect approach. He just flew right up to the boom, and
now he's just flying right through it and letting the boom come to him. As you
can see, there's not a big distance between your nose touching the boom and the
boom being in your refueling door. So make sure, you know, it's a small movement
really in there. And these bots are using what's called the quick refuel
procedure, and that means if you're next in line, you just go echelon left in a
close formation behind the current fuel cooler, and as soon as he moves out the
boom, you move right on. That's probably a little more advanced than most people
who are just learning to tank are capable of. But one thing about tanking is it
really works on your close formation skills. And the more you fly tanking, the
more you'll be able to hold a close formation. Probably not as well as these
bots, but at least as well as me, which is not superbly well, but good enough
not to crash into your wingman and good enough to just maintain position on the
tanker. So the actual reform position is up here on the tanker's right wing,
basically ahead of the boom, and everyone behind you just goes in an echelon
right behind you. So you're all out of the way of these guys coming off the
refueling boom. As you can see, I told them to leave the way. And once they're
in, they're off the right position. So the final thing we need to do before we
close off is close our refueling door. So we're just going to go back to the
left side here and make sure that door is closed. If you don't close that door,
you won't be able to use the autopilot functions. And basically, if you use
those, you're going to be unhappy. So now what I'm going to do is show you how
to do this without all these fancy, without the radar, without the tac-an,
without anything. I'm just going to turn it all off. I'm going to turn off my
HUD, and I'm just going to kind of roll in visually. Okay, as you can see, I've
turned off my HUD, I've unlocked the tanker on my FCR, turned off the tac-an. I
actually put it into a standby position. So I've turned off all the fancy gizmos
that I got the tanker with last time. And so basically what I'm going to explain
is what are the visual cues that tell you you're coming up on the tanker, that
tell you when you need to adjust your airspeed and such. So right now you can
see the tanker is ahead of me. He's about, I'd say, five miles ahead of me. You
can see those are my wingmen formed up on his right side. And so what I look for
here is when it starts to look like an actual plane, as opposed to a bunch of
dots on the screen, when it starts to look like a plane body and when you start
to see kind of wings forming out of it, that's like about somewhere between two
and three nautical miles. So that's when I start making sure I'm throttling down
to 400 knots. And I'm just going to maintain that 400 knots in until I see the
tanker's boom fall. The tanker's boom will fall when you're one nautical mile
behind the tanker. So that's when I'm going to start thinking about throttling
down to a little bit lower speed. And a lot of his fuel, which you can kind of
develop doing what I was doing earlier with all the fancy gizmos on, but mostly
what you're doing is you're watching the tanker and you're seeing how fast it's
getting closer and you're just kind of playing it by ear. And really the only
way to get better at this is to keep at it. So I'm just going to fly in from
here and I'm going to slowly throttle down as I sort of see my visual cues and
I'll kind of announce them as I'm going through it. And so one major thing,
obviously, if you come up on the tanker and you think I'm going to refuel and
you look at your right index or there's nothing there, you've got to look over
to your left and open your fuel door. And if you cannot get the tanker to clear
you forward from pre-contact, it's because your fuel door is probably closed. It
might be that you're bouncing around too much, but typically I find that it's
your fuel door closed. So you can see we're getting a real plane here. I'm a
little bit high, so all that speed I thought I'd blow off. I'm going to gain
again in a second. But basically I'm just maintaining my 400 here and I'm
watching for that boom to come down. Now the point of this exercise isn't to be
like webbing so cool and you can probably just head off. The point is that you
don't need all the fancy gear really to get in underneath the tanker. All you
need is to know your speed generally, make sure you're at the right altitude and
then use your eyeballs and your brain. And you can use the head on. Honestly, I
find it a little distracting with the head on and sometimes I turn it off when
I'm tanking anyhow. But basically this is a learned activity and the more you
practice it the better you'll get. So now we're closing in on the nalcomal
behind the tanker. I'm waiting for that boom to come down. I'm starting to fill
up a little early there. One thing is watching for the boom to come down. I'm
going to go ahead and turn your options to fly on. It makes unpleasant noises.
So I'm just waiting for this boom to come down. It's a truly real in a second.
As you can see we're like a nalcomal behind the tanker and it's really, you see
a whole tanker. There's no question what's in front of you. And there we go,
that's the one nalcomal mark. So I'm going to start throttling back here. And
one thing is conservative throttling can never really hurt you. If you are
capable of just staying cloud level and throttling back hard you can kind of
push it to the max and not be afraid of an overshoot. But if you are not feeling
confident don't be afraid to throttle back early and then push your throttle
back into it. So I'm just going to do exactly what I did before which is push up
through the turbulence and sit right underneath the tip of the boom there. And
as you can see I'm basically just watching the tanker now. I'm not even looking
at my airspeed. I'm just watching the tip of that boom and where the tanker is
in relation to my nose. And I'm trying to stay right on target and reduce my
closure to a reasonable rate. So I'm just going to go ahead and do a little bit
of a push up. Sometimes you'll be real close like this and the tanker won't
clear you forward. Just try moving around and then stabilizing. And as you can
see my air is not good as it should be. But sometimes you just can't get the
tanker to clear you forward. As you can tell right there I was just in the wrong
position. You just need to bounce around until you're in the right position, put
your nose on the boom and sit there. So I'm doing this all. I'm just looking at
where my plane is sitting in relation to the tanker and I'm really trying to
ease it in. So you can see I got a little bit too far forward. Now I'm kind of
bouncing around. But at the end of the day just looking at the tanker your brain
is almost going to automatically make these inputs. Especially as you learn to
be smoother and mistaken in the throttle. One thing to definitely feel for is
the dead zone that kind of exists. That little bubble around the tip of the
boom. And that's just an area where the boom operator as soon as you start
searching for you at the boom you'll feel a little bit of stabilization. And
when you start feeling that and the lights are off that means you really need to
stabilize your lateral movement and your vertical movement and your back and
forth movement, your fore and aft movement. So that you're just sitting in one
spot in three dimensional space and you can put that boom into the air refueling
port. Now hooking up in a flat level is not extremely challenging. And for the
most part even if you're not the greatest pilot in the world this is a skill you
can practice and learn. The next challenge is hooking up in a turn. This tanker,
this particular tanker is not designed to challenge me in that way. I've set it
to a 200 mile refueling track. So it pretty much flies a straight line for a
very very long time. However what you can do is set up a tee where the tanker is
a very short refueling track and you can just practice flying underneath it.
That refueling track should be maybe two nautical miles at most. It's basically
going to orbit those points and you'll just be able to sit underneath it like
this and kind of bounce around. Of course if you want to use the tee I'm
currently in you can find it in the video description on YouTube. There's a link
to my drop box. And this particular one is from the Falcon Theater. In addition
you can find in the Korea Theater there is a refueling tutorial. The one that
comes with the original Falcon 4 and that's a great way to practice as well if
you don't really feel like or know how to set up a tee. But stay tuned my next
tutorial will be how to set up tees and campaign missions so if you have any
questions of course feel free to contact me on the UO forums or on the BMS
forums. Hi welcome to another Falcon 4 BMS tutorial. In this tutorial we're
going to be going over the non-computed pop-up attack also known as a pop-up
attack. It's a special air to ground tactic in which you approach a target at
low altitude while terrain masking usually and then you pop up three to four
miles away from the target and then dive bomb it. And this is a tactic that is
used when the target is heavily defended and you can't approach it from high
altitude or if the target may or may not be heavily defended but you don't want
to be detected while you're approaching the target you would use a low altitude
approach followed by a pop-up attack. So in this example I'm just a lone
Singleton F-16 that is equipped with two Mark 84's, two tanks and a centerline
jammer and I have an NOE route that's been planned onto the target area and the
target is a Sun-Chan nuclear plant. I'm going to be attacking it from the
southeast. In this example just in the training that I'm going to do there's not
going to be any air defenses on the target so what we're going to do is I'm just
going to attack the nuclear plant undefended. I'll show you guys how to do a
pop-up attack and then I'm going to put down an SA-6 and some man pads to guard
it and then I'll do the pop-up attack again showing you guys how important it is
to do a pop-up attack on a heavily defended target. So let's get in game. Okay
so we're now in game and we're ingressing towards the target so let's go over
what we're going to be doing here. So right now I'm flying the flight plan on
that low altitude and the idea is at about four miles away from the target I'm
going to pitch to the left or right 30 degrees offset, 30 to 40 degrees offset
and then when I'm about three miles away from the target I'm going to pop up 25
to 30 degrees, offset my wings left or right so I can get eyes on the target and
visually acquire it. Then I'm going to roll in and dive bomb it and what bombing
mode we're going to be in or what master mode we're going to be in is we're
going to approach the ingress in nav mode then when we're at about 10 miles or
so we're going to switch to CCRP and we're going to remain in CCRP the entire
time until we see the target visually then we're going to switch to CCIP and
then release bombs in that fashion, roll off, egress at low altitude and the
reason why we want to use CCRP is very important. CCRP is going to tell us our
current range to the target's year point and it's also going to tell us our
offset angle to the target's year from the gun cross so that allows us to have
an idea of how far we need to turn in order to align ourselves onto the target
and it will also make sure that we're never going to overshoot the target or
otherwise pop up too early and if you're in CCIP mode it won't show you the
current range to the steer point on your HUD it will tell you the current range
to the PIPR, the CCIP PIPR and that's no good. You always want to be aware of
how far away you are from the target otherwise you're basically going to be
eyeballing it the entire way which is okay if you're doing an impromptu pop up
attack that you didn't really plan but you're always going to want to use CCRP
if it's a planned pop up attack and to really maximize your effectiveness and to
maximize your security. Now there's a few cockpit settings that you should
probably set before you do this and normally you would do this on the ground you
don't want to do this in the air you want to do this on the ground but you know
I'm already in the air just to speed things up. So the first thing is you're
going to want to display your DED data on the HUD so this guy right here the DED
we're going to want to display that on the HUD and the reason for that is you
always want to keep your heads up okay or your head up you don't want to be
looking down in the cockpit looking for stuff you don't even want to be glancing
down at the DED you want to keep your head up the entire time you're doing a pop
up attack because it can be really dangerous you got to look for short range air
defenses, man pads, SAMs, direct ground fire all sorts of threats are going to
be possible so when you're doing a pop up attack make sure that your DED data is
on the HUD this way you can very clearly see what's your point you're
referencing okay the second thing well let's show you where that switch is
before we go on to the next thing so it's over here it's on the right side of
your joystick this switch right here DED data okay we want to flip that into the
up position and now you'll see that the DED is now displayed on the HUD okay
another switch that we want to turn on is radar altimeter okay this guy right
here to the top right of DED data we want to have that in the up position and
the reason for that is by default it's only going to show you your barometric
altitude so this number right here is not your altitude from the ground this is
your barometric altitude okay so it says we're at 1530 feet which is totally
incorrect you can see that the ground is right below me by about 100 feet and if
that was correct I would be way higher in the air so what we want to do is we
want to populate this box right here which is your radar altitude and then your
aircraft will use a radar to ping the ground and get you your exact distance
from the ground so in order to turn on the radar altimeter we have to put this
switch into the up position and now you'll see the radar altimeter box is now
active and we're 790 feet from the ground that's our true altitude from the
ground another thing you're going to want to do when you're doing Apollo attack
is you're going to want to make sure that you have a flare program ready to go
for me I have program 2 is a flare program doesn't matter what program you set
it for but just make sure you have a flare program ready to go so when you pop
up you can defend yourself against man pads lastly when you do Apollo attack one
of the most common new mistakes is to not set an arming delay on your bombs and
if you use it a full arming delay your bombs are just going to be duds they're
basically going to hit the target and that's going to be it so make sure you go
into the control area and set an arming delay and for more information on that
you can watch my CCIP video and also when you do a Apollo attack you want to
make one pass and then haul S so that means you want to drop all your ordnance
with one pulse you don't want to be making multiple runs at the target for every
additional run you make at a target you substantially increase your chance of
being shot down so that being said I'm going to release in pairs and since the
target is pretty big I'm going to leave the spacing of 175 feet but if it was a
small target like a depot or something I would change it to about 50 feet so I
have two Mark 84's going to release in pairs so now we're pretty much good to go
one other thing that I am going to go over is the missile step key so like I
said we're going to be switching from CCRP to CCIP in this attack now most of
you if you wanted to do that you would probably come to this MFD you would look
down from your HUD you would look at your MFD and you would click this button
and switch it to CCIP now that's fine if you're at high altitude and you're
doing it at leisure but if you need to switch this instantly don't have time to
mess around with looking down in your HUD it's also going to look down from your
HUD it's also going to lower your situational awareness that's no good so there
is a HODIS function to switch from different bombing modes so we don't need to
use the MFD's what we can do is we can use the missile step key and the default
binding for that on the keyboard is shift forward slash it's also your nosewheel
steering key by default so if we press that we can very quickly switch bombing
modes we can see I'm in CCRP then it goes to CCIP and then DTOS so make sure you
have that bound or you at least keep it by default and you just know what the
binding is this way you can very quickly change that without having to look down
and compromise your security those are just a few tips as far as preparing your
aircraft for a pop-up attack now we're going to ingress toward the target and do
a pop-up attack okay so we're now in the air and we're going to go to the target
and we're going to go now approaching the IP we're about five miles from the IP
and then there's about eight miles to the target from the IP so let's very
quickly go over the basics of what we're going to be doing again okay we're
going to be approaching the target from the IP when the range is about four
miles we're going to offset to the right or left in this case I'm going to
offset to the right and I'm then going to pitch up 25 degrees once I'm about
three miles out get angels and then I'm going to tilt my wings to the left this
way I can look to my left my ten o'clock and get eyes on the target then I'm
going to attack the target with CCIP and then egress south okay pull up pull up
pull up pull up visually see the target from here to my left now we're IP in
bounds nine miles out altitude altitude five miles pitch to the right go up you
can visually see the target to my ten o'clock low and hold it to about four
thousand feet and roll in switch to CCIP bombs away roll off to the south cap
flare okay now let's try that again except this time the enemy has an SA-6 a AAA
battalion and an infantry battalion guarding the nuclear plant pull up pull up
pull up pull up altitude altitude altitude altitude cap flare cap flare okay now
let's try that again Bombs away. TAC flare. TAC flare low. TAC flare out. So as
you can see, those air defenses didn't have enough time to acquire me and engage
me because I did a pop-up attack. And if I were to do that at altitude, I would
have been probably killed. Watch, I'll go ahead and pop up right now. Let's do
an imbalment and gain some altitude and you'll see that these air defenses will
attack me. If I were to come in at this altitude, it would have been a bad day.
Sam launch. And engage by AAA. Warning, warning, warning, warning. It's not
hidden, it's just on the wrong way. Contact target. Filtrate 2. Filtrate 2,
cleared hot. Cleared hot. Contact on the mic. Filtrate 1, contact on the mic.
One is cleared hot. Contact on the mic. Got your watch, contact on the mic. One
is cleared hot.
