
vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv

! ! ! PLEASE READ THIS STUFF ! ! !

vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv

  *** Le Mans Circuit de la Sarthe ***

Light version: If you find the frame-rates on this track too bad,
there is also a "Light" version available, with reduced eye-candy and
increased frame-rates. The two versions are perfectly compatible. You
can download this version via http://home.swipnet.se/~w-36707/sarthe

Software mode* & Dedicated Server version: On some computers (probably
mostly newer ones), this track might not work in software mode, while
on others it does work fine in software mode. We do not know the
reason for this, but it is the same with (probably) all add-on
tracks. If you are running a dedicated server on a computer that does
not have a 3d-accelerator card, and find that this track does not work
in software mode on this computer, there is however a special
"Dedicated Server" version of the track available, which does not
include any textures or objects (and is thus undriveable), but should
work in software mode on all computers. This version can be downloaded
via the same URL as the "Light" version above.

* Software mode = Running GPL without a 3d-accelerator card.

Pitboard position: Like in real life, the pitbord is shown where the
"signalling pits" at the Le Mans circuit is placed, just after
Mulsanne corner. The information you get on the pitboard is the same
as if the board was placed just before the start/finish line. Note:
This means, that when you are on the last lap, with half a lap to go,
your pitboard will say that you have 0 (zero) laps remaining.

Important AI-Note: If you use modified gpl_ai.ini and/or driver.ini
files, the AI cars might crash too often. So please try using the
original AI files from your GPL CD, if you experience any AI problems.

AI tip: Due to a shortcoming in the GPL AI, AI cars do not gain speed
by slipstreaming. Also, the top-speed of an AI-Cooper is virtuially
the same as an AI-Eagle. Therefore, the top-speed of the AI cars on
the straight is set pretty high. If you usually drive slower cars, you
may find the AI cars too fast on the straight. If so, however, you can
easily alter the AI car's top-speed by opening up the track.ini file
(which after installation will be found in your new gpl\tracks\bsarthe
folder) and editing the line:

dlong_speed_maximum = x.xxxxx

The higher you set it, the higher the AI top-speed will be, and vice
versa.

Credits:

Roland Ehnström - Track layout, altitudes, scenery, some texture
mips, simple object 3do's, modifications to Dunlop Bridge 3do
originally made for Kyalami by Raymond Geering, positioning of
objects, AI-modifications, default setups.

Jussi Kaskia - Texture mips.

Phil Flack (GPLEA) - 3do's for grandstands and pit building, fixes to
other 3do's, help.

David Noonan - AI.

Greger Huttu - Groove, frame rate improvements.

Pedro Johansson - TV2 cameras, 3do's for two houses in Maison Blanche
section.

Jesse Laakso - TV1 cameras, beta-testing.

Meik Thiemann - Program-cover and trackmaps.

Matthew Knutsen (GPLEA) - Original single-tree textures (mainly
borrowed from Crystal Palace and used with the kind permission of the
GPLEA), track info, help.

Martijn Keizer (GPLEA) - Frame rate improvements, help.

Edward Solheim (GPLEA) - Track info, help.

Gilles Sauthon - Track info, beta-testing.

Julien Millour - Track info, beta-testing.

Graham Endeacott - Track info, beta-testing.

Joe Lafrite (GPLEA) - Track info, beta-testing.

Martin Granberg - This great installer, help.

vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv

                ! ! ! THANK YOU ! ! !

vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv

