Spa-Francorchamps 1967 for TRAGrand Prix Legends Made By

John Basara, Hatzi, Thomas Laechele, ginetto, sky, Stefano Zampedri,
and others.




Location : Francorchamps, Stavelot, Belgium Type : Road Circuit
Elevation: 400 m. above sea level Length : 14.112 km. - 8.769 miles
Turns : 21 Year : 1967

>> Click here to view Spa67 Gallery <<

Check out the preview movie made by Stefan Roess: The Story of Spa67

The first time, John Basaras files were posted, was in
2006, he made the ribbon of the whole track thinking that the
elevations were final and the track needed a total make up. But till
2010 there was no one working with the files. At this time, the track
was only the road and grass on the trackside. The layout was in many
ways different to the original papy track. There were no 3DOs placed
or built, the altitudes of the track only edited until Les Combes and
the textures were only placeholders.

Hatzi came to the project in March 2010. He started to correct the
existing altitudes. Roman (sky) was already in the team and supported
Hatzi and ginetto. Hatzi also started working on the gtk file in
building the landscape. He also added some existing 3DOs. With the
help of ginetto he started to correct the layout. So ginetto is the
good angel of the development who had always helped immediately when
Hatzi didn't know how to do something, because he never made a
complete GPL track. After the first year the track was an
alpha-version and on a promising way.

Hatzi started to build new 3DOs for bushes, trees and areas which
couldn't be built with the traces and walls within the GTK, like the
Eau Rouge bridge section. At this time, Roman started the work on his
extraordinary ground textures. This kind of realistic and high
resolution textures were never seen before on a GPL track. The next
big step was the joining of Thomas Laechele (thl) to the group. Thomas
had made excellent texture updates for existing tracks. His skills in
creating textures of the horizon, all kinds of vegetation, houses and
hills vastly enhanced the look and feel of Spa '67.

Stefano built the houses and their textures at La Source and other
places, and contributed the trackside vehicles and many further
details. Thomas and Hatzi started to build the houses and hill
3DOs. Hatzi made the 3DOs and Thomas created the textures. Most of
them were basically pictures of the buildings which are still there,
or sometimes inspired by Google street-view. Most textures were
completely new creations. Hatzi also started adding all sorts of stuff
(poles, spectators, electricity cables, more trees, more
bushes). Meanwhile Michel supported the group with friendly research,
and Duncan provided further photos and info. Rob Hunter offered advice
at various stages of development.

In 2012 Phil entered the group and made 3DOs for the pit buildings,
the main grandstands and the ad-boards at Stavelot and
start-finish. Remy Roesz joined in November 2012 and painted some pit
adverts, those on the left wall at La Source and the boards after the
pits. To have a case of more realism, we also decided to reflect the
weather and sunshine conditions on the textures. At this time it was
clear that there must be different versions of the track 3DO and
different versions of the resolution of the textures, so slower
computers could also make the track drivable. In May or June 2013
Duncan came back. He had already been part of the group some years
before but then left without any information of his plans. He made
some textures and did an extremely detailed research work for all
parts of the track. Together with Hatzi he edited the altitudes in
many parts of the track. So the last 2 years were a time of
fine-tuning.

Greg Liebzeit helped to bring the project close to completion. He made
the camera file with the help of Michel's photos and keen direction,
optimised the AI behaviour, and created AI sets which replicate
history with remarkable accuracy across several seasons. He also
tested with zeal, as did Michel. Chris (silence) created some textures
and chose the resolutions for the standard texture pack. Stefan Roess
made an online grid and volunteered to host the track files, while TvO
designed the Spa '67 website.

In April 2014 ginetto took over the leadership of the group, made
numerous fixes and optimisations, and managed the finalizing of the
track folder and the installer. But he had to leave in July for some
months. In October Hatzi was back again and the group decided not to
wait for ginetto's return. The hard voluntary work of the team with
its ups and downs, times of great progress and periods of stagnation,
times of conflicts, personal crises, but always with the aim to create
something extraordinary, in mind now comes to an end. We hope that
many people all over the world will have a great challenge, when
driving on this extraordinary legendary racetrack!

The team of Spa67 Installation

To install Spa67, run the installer and follow the instruction
carefully.  Note: Installed Spa67 track folder is located in [game
folder]\tracks\spa67


IMPORTANT: To run the track with '67 F1 cars you MUST install GPL 67
Patch v1.3.  If you cannot find gplc67.exe in your GPL game folder,
that means you haven't installed 1.3 patch or configured with GEM+.
Please download the patch from GPL 67 Patch v1.3 or at SRMZ and follow
the instruction carefully.  After installing the 1.3 patch, GPL will
still display "GPL.1.2.0.2" in game.  To play, run the game via GEM+
or gplc67.exe instead.

The track also requires V2 rasterizers, available here: V2 Rasterizers
or at SRMZ


Configure & Troubleshoot: If you get the error "Could not initialize
replay system" or have FPS problems, use the standard textures (not
the hires update). If you still have problems, use the lowres texture
pack and/or the LITE 3DOs.

Please reduce the graphics detail level from 100 to 99 to cure
graphical glitches.  You can set this in GEM+ by clicking the
'Graphics' button.

On the website you will find a spa67_LITE.7z package.  This LITE
version features fewer objects and shorter draw distances, for older
PCs. Extract its files in the spa67 main folder to activate.  You can
also use the LITE trackside 3DOs with the FULL spa67.3DO; to do so
simply delete the loose spa67.3do you have just extracted.

You can also download alternative texture packs: The high-res pack
increases the resolution of some textures, for modern powerful PCs.
The low-res pack reduces some textures, for older PCs.

On the website you will find a spa67_SERVER.7z archive.  This contains
the bare server version, including Stefan's wide grid.

Fog effect: When running the '65 F1 and '67 GT mods, fog is displayed
to simulate a rainy atmosphere. To remove the fog, open "track65.ini"
or "trackGT.ini" and make the following change: [ fog ] type = 0


There are additional archives inside the installed track folder: AI
seasons: Want to know why Graham Hill is so slow in the practice
sessions and then starts from the rear of the grid? Do you find that
Michael Parks crashes very, very frequently in the practice sessions?
To answer these and many other questions unarchive the _AI.7z file to
your spa67 folder and find the 'Race reports - AI explanations'
folder. Please install the realistic AI and historically correct
carsets by following the instructions within the folders 'Global AI
files', '1967 Historical Spa Sports Cars', '1967 Historical Spa F1
Carset' and '1965 Historical Spa F1 Carset'.

Team Pit Boards: The _TeamPitBoards.7z archive contains a pit
signalling man for each 1967 F1 team. To use this option, unzip and
copy the board.srb file from the relevant team folder into the spa67
main folder.


1967 Belgian GP Race Reports: To read a huge collection of articles
about the real race posted by Michel, click here.

