 My name is Chuck Gager and today I'm going to walk you through
everything you need to know about getting started with Falcon BMS 4.32
So the first thing you need to know is how and where to get the game.
So you get the game from Benchmark Sims and the first thing you need
to do to get the actual game from them is you need to go to their
website. So you're going to open up your browser here and you're going
to go to Google and you're going to type in Benchmark Sims. And it
should be the first link in the page, BenchmarkSims.org. And you'll
follow this link and then you'll get to this lovely website here. And
unfortunately to use all of the services on the website, including the
download section, you need to create a login. So I've already made one
starting to do that, but first thing you get here is you're going to
go to the top right and click login. And you're going to give them
your email and everything and make a login for the website. And once
you've done that, you're going to go to the download section that you
just now gained access to. And you're going to find the thread titled
Falcon BMS 4.32 Full Installer. And you click on this guy. Alrighty.
And you no longer in the past you had to do this weird thing where you
applied patches to the installer and then installed the game. You
don't have to do any of that anymore. All you have to do is download
this Falcon 4 or Falcon BMS setup either through Torrent or one of
these mirrors. And you just run the setup and the game will install it
and you don't have to worry about any of that other stuff that you had
to do in the past. So I've already downloaded this. And once you
download it, you'll get a folder that looks like this and you'll just
run the setup.exe in here. I'm not going to run this because I already
have the game installed and I can't install two versions over each
other. But one thing to note, it's pretty straightforward. You just
show it where, like any other game you install, you just show it where
to go. But Falcon BMS is a mod for the original Falcon 4 game. So to
install Falcon BMS, you have to have purchased the original Falcon 4.
And how they check that you've bought the original Falcon 4 is during
setup it'll ask you to point it towards this original Falcon 4.exe
that came with the original game. If you need help on instructions on
how to obtain a Falcon 4.exe through a proper channel, you can
personal message me at my YouTube address here or at my Reddit
username, Chuck underscore Jaeger, which is spelled just the same way
as my user one. And I can help you out on how to get a Falcon 4.exe
through the proper channels. And with that, that is how you install
the game. And next we'll actually go through to some of the important
things you need to know about actually using the F16. Alrighty. Now
that you've installed the game, we're going to go over some of the
setup and configuration options you have with BMS. So when you first
start up the game, you'll get this little menu here. And the first one
will actually launch the game. But underneath of that, there's a
little configuration button you can click here. And if you go in here,
you'll see you have all of these options for changing all sorts of
different things about how the game runs. For now, I would leave most
of this stuff as default. But if you start playing the game and you
find something you don't like, like for example, you don't like your
field of view, you can come back here and change your field of view to
be something else. And any other kind of tweaks and things like that
that you want to change about the game is all done back here through
the Falcon BMS config. And the next thing that's kind of important to
talk about here is this third button will direct you to all of the
manuals for BMS. And in here is the actual BMS full manual. So this
manual covers everything that I'm going to go over in this video
rather briefly. This manual covers it in excruciating detail. So if
you ever need to know how to do something in much more detail, this
manual will show you how to do it in just way more detail than you
probably need to know. But everything you'd ever need to know about
the F16 in the game is in this manual if you ever get lost. Alrighty,
now we're actually ready to start up the game and create our first
pilot and start setting up some of our controls and whatnot. So now
we're actually going to launch the game. And when you first start the
game and get to your main menu, the first thing you want to do is you
want to make your first pilot profile. And you do that under your
logbook. And mine's already filled in with my pilot, but when you guys
get in here, you're going to click new to make your first pilot. And
then you're going to put in a call sign and a name for the pilot you
want and then you're going to hit save. And after you've made this
pilot, all of your controls and your difficulty settings and some
statistics about your campaigns and whatnot will all save this
logbook. So it's very important that you come in here and create that
pilot, name it something and save it. Okay. And after you've done
that, you're actually ready to start setting up some controls. All of
that is done under setup. Under setup, you have all the options for
the difficulty of the game, to graphics that you'll set yourself,
sound options. And then under controllers is where you'll find most of
your graphic options. Or sorry, not graphic options, control mappings.
The first thing you need to map in here is probably your joystick axes
for your Y and X axis for pitching the role in the actual aircraft.
And that's under advanced. If you go under advanced to flight control,
you'll find all of these dropdown menus where you can map different
axes on your joystick or your rudder pedals to whatever you'd like
them to be. And the same thing goes here for avionics control. If
you've got a mini stick on your joystick, you can also map the mini
stick in the F-16 to X and Y axis or whatever axes you want. And by
default, I think the game will load up a key file called BMS key file.
And it'll have most of the controls you want in here. And as you start
playing the game and watching tutorials and you find controls that you
want to map to your stick or your keyboard, you'll just find the
corresponding control here in this list. And click to the left of
whatever control you want to set and press the corresponding key in
your joystick or keyboard to change that control. And then once you've
made a bunch of changes in here that you want to save, hit save. And
you can type in your own name for a key file like my key file. And
it's a text document that gets saved in your BMS folder that has all
of these options in there saved for you. Okay. I don't really have
everyone's sticks a little bit different so I unfortunately can't tell
you everything you need to map right now. So hopefully as you watch
this tutorial and other people's tutorials, it'll become clear to you
what you need to map on your joystick. Most things in this game have a
key command that's actually on the keyboard. So hopefully you'll just
start out pressing those keys on the keyboard and then as you find
controls that you want to have more access to, you'll come in here and
map those to your stick. But for now, this is everything you need to
know about where to go to map your controls once you figure out where
you want them to be placed on your stick. Sorry, one more thing that
should be noted I guess before I get into some of the actual flying
tutorials here is that if I ever say a key command in game like press
TMS left and you don't know what the heck TMS left is or where it is,
you'll come here into setups into controllers, and you'll look through
this list until you find whatever key command told you to press so
there it is TMS left, and you'll see that for you, it might be
different. It's bound to control left arrow. So again, if I ever in a
tutorial and I say you need to press, you know, TMS up to lock a
target and you don't know that's bound to you'll come into your
controller file here and you'll find it in the controls and you'll
just look it up and that's what it is bound for you. Because
everyone's key files are a little bit different depending on which one
you loaded up by default. Alrighty, and with that, we are actually
ready to go into the game, the actual game world and certainly how to
start up the aircraft. So how most of the training goes in this game
is there actually isn't like a step by step training there is in DCS.
There's all of these pre made tactical engagements under this tactical
engagement trainings tab. And these are basically just preset
scenarios that will require you to do something there's not actually
like a step by step guide that you can read. These are just scenarios
that put you into, like a pre made mission where you have to employ
something that you're trying to train up on. So for now, we go to
tactical engagement training, and we're going to select ramp start,
and we're going to commit to start up the ramp start tutorial. And
this game map world is what you'll see most of the time when you're
flying BMS or planning missions. And here on the left, there'll be a
list of all the flights you can join right now there's only one it's
the training flight. And you can select one of the F16s down here to
join that slot and that's a slot you'll actually fly as when you
commit to the game world. And you see here we have a takeoff time of
eight o'clock, and it's 730 right now. So what will happen is when we
hit takeoff, it'll actually accelerate game time up into our takeoff
time. So we're going to now select this first slot here doesn't really
matter. And we're going to hit takeoff. And we're going to select ramp
start. And what this will do is it will stop the game time 20 minutes
before takeoff, and it will give us 20 minutes to start up the
aircraft and get onto the runway by our designated takeoff time. If I
clicked runway, it would just fast forward it would do the ramp start
for me and it would just spawn my aircraft on the runway ready to go
one minute before I designated takeoff time. For training purposes
we're going to select ramp start. Okay, here we are in the aircraft
and Chris knows this is really fucking loud. So the first thing you
need to do is you need power to all of your avionics. You're going to
come down to your electronics panel here and you're going to switch
this to main power. And while you're down here and go to your fuel
panel and you're going to make sure this master switches up and you're
going to set your engine feed to normal. Okay. And then after that,
you're going to come down to your right panel here and you're going to
set your air source to normal. And after that's all set, you're going
to turn on your jet fuel starter, which is over here in the left
panel, and you're going to turn that to start to. And you're going to
wait a little bit because it takes a little bit of time to spool up.
And you're going to look down here to your RPM gauge and you're going
to wait until this hits about 25. Oh, and one thing I forgot is while
you're doing that is you probably want to put your parking brake on to
make sure the aircraft doesn't roll away. And it's also courteous when
you're starting up your aircraft to turn on your lights just to let
everyone know. And these are all of your lighting panels here. And
this little switch here is your master fuel. This will turn all of
your lights off or on. And then these are the specific options for
your lights. Okay. So that's at about 25. And what you're going to do
now is the game is a little bit finicky for some reason. You're going
to put your throttle at about half and then you're going to hit Alt I
to move it past the throttle detent is what that does in real life.
And because this game is so finicky, you're going to wiggle your
throttle around a little bit until you see this RPM jump. It's just it
takes the game a little while to register that you actually moved the
throttle past that detent. And as soon as it starts blowing up, you're
going to come all the way back to flight idle. Otherwise, you're just
going to rocket forward away from you. Okay. And now the aircraft
engine has started up. We're going to start getting some of our
avionics online here. We're going to come down to this right panel,
avionics power, and we're going to flip all these switches to on. And
very important, we're going to left click here to turn our IS to norm
because this takes about eight minutes to align. I want to get that
going as fast as possible. Next, while we're here, we're going to turn
on some of our sensor power. We're going to turn on our left and right
hard points. We're going to turn on our radar and we're turning our
radar altimeter to standby for now. And then if it was dark, you could
also change your lighting down here too, but it's not. So we'll leave
all of this to off. Okay. And then you'll come up here to your data
entry display and you'll notice at the top here it says INS 0.5 out of
90. When this reads 8.0 out of 90, it'll start flashing ready. And
you're actually ready to go at that point, but it takes about eight
minutes. So we'll work on some other systems while it's starting up.
Next thing we're going to do is we're going to turn on the HUD.
There's a little wheel here that will turn on the brightness of the
HUD. You just scroll all the way forward and there's your HUD. We're
going to wait for this bit test to complete before we do anything. And
while we're here, we're also going to turn off our, sorry, arm our
ejection seat. You can get rid of that master caution there. Next,
we're going to turn on some of our countermeasures. We're going to
come down here to the bottom left. We're going to turn our jammer RWR
on. All of these switches are going to go on. And then we're going to
put our mode onto manual and just leave that on program one for now.
And then while we're down here, we're also going to hit this power
button for our RWR and activate our RWR and get that going. And then
next we're going to come down back to our left panel here. We're going
to turn our tach an knob here to UFC for up-point controls. We're
going to turn on our ECM. We're going to set our radio levels. By
default, these audio knobs are all the way down. These are audio knobs
that you can change in-game, so if someone's coming over really loud
over radio two, you can actually lower the volume there. And then
we're going to set our radio transmit to both. And don't touch any of
this stuff, you can just leave that as is. Okay, and we're not going
to actually sit here and wait for eight minutes. You can actually
speed up time in the game by default. You can hit shift tab on the
keyboard a few times and up here in the top you'll see this little
multiplier number. You can hit that a couple times all the way up to
64X and the game world will start whizzing by at a million miles an
hour. And as you can see here, we're already at eight minutes. And
then you hit shift-caps lock to slow back down to normal game time a
bunch of times until you're back at 1X. So now that this is flashing
ready, we're going to come down here back to our INS panel and we're
going to left click again to put this to nav. And then once we're on
nav, everything should flash away and everything should be good to go.
We're going to go ahead and hit return on our upfront controls to come
back to this default menu here. This is what you see most of the time
in AF16 is just this default upfront controls that shows your UHF
channel and VHF radio channels that you're talking on and your
currently selected steer point. Okay, after that you also have to load
your data cartridge. This is a custom cartridge that you set before
flight and you can actually save it and have it persistent between
jets. And that's something we'll go over a little bit later. It's
something that has all of your presets on the plane like which MFDs do
you want and your kind of customization options for your jet. But to
load it, you will press an MFD button once to select that button where
you want it to go. You'll press it again and you'll get this page and
you'll select DTE. And here you can see my data cartridge with my ID
Chuck Ramp Start and you'll hit load at the top there. It'll take a
minute to load everything up. All right, it's loaded and now you can
see it has all of my MFD presets. So in my data cartridge I specified
that I want my targeting pod SMS on these positions on the MFD. And
that's all stuff we'll go over in a little bit after we're done with
the Ramp Start. And with that you've successfully Ramp Started the
F-16. You'll notice there in the top left it says chocks in place. To
get rid of those you'll have to press U and talk to the tower and
click and press 8 to request him to remove chocks. And then you can
actually pull forward and take off. And with that, that is how you
Ramp Start the F-16. Okay, as promised in the last section before we
go any further, now I'm going to teach you how to load up your data
cartridge. So before any flight, before you start any flight here at
the map screen, down here in the bottom right there's a little button
labeled data cartridge. And if you open this up, this will pull up
this whole dialog box where you can customize all sorts of things
about your aircraft before you start up. Some of the most important
things in here are your EWS programs, which are your chaff and flare
programs. And you can set these to whatever you want. And if you
remember during the startup there was a little knob that we could
switch between four programs on our chaff and flare, our
countermeasures panel. And this is where you set what those four
programs do. So for example for me, my first program drops one flare
and no chaff, and my second program drops one chaff and no flare. But
you can set these up to be whatever you want. And you can also
customize which MFDs are displayed by default so every time you get in
the plane you don't have to load the ones you want up. So there's the
five different master modes in the plane. And again you can change
which MFDs are displaying what by default by changing the primary,
secondary, and tertiary boxes here. So for example when I'm in nav
mode, my first MFD will have my radar on the left button, nothing in
the middle button, and my train following radar on the right button.
And my second MFD will have my HSD, TGP, and SMS on those three
bottoms on the right. And the HSD will be pulled up, that's what this
current means, primary. My HSD will be pulled up by default whenever I
go into nav mode. And you can also set preset radio channels. You can
see these are all by default, I usually don't touch them. I usually
set uniform 15, UHF 15, to the tower frequency. And you can just press
set tower there and it will automatically put your preset uniform 15
channel to the tower out of whatever you're flying out of. So once
you've set everything how you want, you can just hit save and close
this out. And you are ready to fly. And next time you load up your
data cartridge in game, all of that stuff will be saved. And you only
have to do this once. Between every mission this is saved. Every time
you just come in here and hit load, and it will load up the last data
cartridge you used. Alrighty, now I'll let you know how to use a data
cartridge. We're actually going to learn how to take the aircraft off
and play around with the upfront controls. So I'm in the takeoff
techno engagement and we're going to go ahead and select takeoff. And
we're going to select runway so the game fast forwards us right
towards our takeoff time and we don't have to sit through and ramp
start the aircraft every time. Alright, here we are ready to take off.
And probably the first thing you want to do when you're on the
centerline lined up is you want to turn your nosewheel steering off so
you don't accidentally jerk the wheels out from underneath of you
whenever you're taking off. And when you're taking off, depending on
your loadout, you can either go all the way up to full mill on the
throttle, which is just below afterburner, or if it's short runway and
you have to have your payload you can actually go all the way up to
full afterburner. We're going to use full afterburner here for this
takeoff since we have fuel to burn. And you're going to keep it on
centerline and you're going to wait until you get around 160 170 and
that's about when you rotate. And then make sure you get your gear up
before you're going 300. If your gear is down when you're going above
300 knots it's just going to get ripped clean off. That's no good. So
while we're here I'll go ahead and point out some things on the HUD.
Right now we're in nav mode by default and this little balloon here
represents which way we need to turn to go towards our first nav
point. And what you do is you put your little flight path marker right
here inside, or you put the balloon inside the flight path marker to
be flying directly towards your wave point. You can also hit on the
keyboard by default, you can hit S and shift S to cycle through your
wave points. And you see here on the bottom how it's cycling. Right
now this bottom right number is the number of the steer point I've
selected and this number to the left of it is the range of that steer
point. So I can hit S a few times to select the third steer point and
it will also put a little diamond on the ground where that steer point
is and it will give me a range here in the bottom left. You'll also
see here on the HSD when I hit S and shift S it will fill in the steer
point I have selected. Okay now we're going to talk a little bit more
about the HUD and the up front controls. An important thing on your
HUD, let me actually zoom in here for you. An important thing on your
HUD here, this bottom left set of numbers is your bearing and distance
to Bullseye. So if at any time you need to call out your location to
your wingman, you'll call out these two numbers. And what this means
is that my bearing from Bullseye is 191 and I'm 85 miles away from
Bullseye. Some other important things here is this number on the top
left is your G and this number here is your Mach number. So right now
we're going Mach 0.93. This is your indicated airspeed, this is your
radar altitude and this is your barometric altitude. This AL 300
represents the altitude at which Betty will come on to you and say,
altitude warning, just to prevent you from wrecking into the ground.
Okay now we're going to talk a little bit about the up front controls
here, which is this little block right here. The best part of this
aircraft is that you'll do everything that you ever need to do through
the up front controls. You switch radio channels and you set
frequencies and you do everything through the up front controls.
There's no knobs you have to turn. So for example, let's say I wanted
to change my radio channel to the tower frequency. I would press COM 1
on the up front controls and say my data cartridge, I preset that to
channel 15. I would type in 15 and I would hit enter. And now you see
that I'm on uniform channel 15 and when I go to talk, or when I press
my COM switch for UHF, it'll actually light up which radio I'm talking
over. And that's how you switch channels. And the same goes for VHF 9,
sorry for your VHF radio. Hit COM 2 and you'll type in either a new
radio channel or a preset channel or a whole new radio channel. You
can also type in a manual frequency and talk over it that way. I'll
level out here so I don't get too high. Okay, some other important
things. Changing TACAN channel for finding tankers in the air is done
by pressing 1. You see it's labeled T I L S. And let's say there was a
tanker on channel 11. I would type in 11 on the up front controls and
I would hit enter. And then if it was on Yankee, I would hit 0 and
then enter to change it to Yankee. And you can just hit 0 and enter to
switch between those. And at the same token, I can press sequence to
change whether or not it's an airborne TACAN AA or it's a ground based
TACAN TR. And the same goes for changing my frequency for I L S
landings if you also want to do. And any time with the up front
controls, if you need to go back to the default page, you just hit
return. If you get confused or you're messing up, you just hit return
a bunch of times and you'll come back to this default page here. Next
thing you can change in up front controls is allow here. This will
change the altitude at which Betty yells at. So let's say I want Betty
to yell at me at 500 feet. I can type in 500 feet and put that in. And
you'll notice on the top right of my HUD, it now says allow 500, which
means that Betty will yell at me when I get 500 feet off the deck. At
the same time, I can also scroll down using these two keys on the up
front controls to move up or down on the data entry display. And I can
also change another altitude warning that Betty will also yell at me
at 10,000 feet. Let's say I wanted her to yell at me at 5,000. I would
just type in 5,000 feet and I would hit enter. And then to go back to
the main screen, I just hit return on the up front controls. Okay,
next thing you can change is if you don't want to hit S or shift S to
cycle between steer points, you can just hit 4 on the up front
controls and type in a steer point manually. So let's say I just want
to go straight to steer point 5. I'll just hit 5, enter. And then now
I have steer point 5 selected. Okay, next important thing is this
cruise button here. People say the F-16 has got short legs, but it
really doesn't if you know how to manipulate this cruise page and fly
around in optimal settings. So the data entry display, or the F-16
itself, will actually calculate everything you need to know to fly the
F-16 in the most fuel efficient manner. So if you hit sequence, you'll
cycle between all of these different pages, which will give you all
sorts of different fuel information. So the most important one I feel
like is the range page, and that will tell you how much fuel you've
got left at your current flight settings when you get to the steer
point. So you can see if I go up to full afterburner, this number will
go way down and it will tell me that I only have 1800 pounds of fuel
when I get to now 5. At the same token, if I cycle through these
pages, there's different information here. If I go to the homepage, it
will show me the optimal altitude I need to fly at to save the most
fuel. And if I go to the EDR page, it will also tell me the optimum
Mach speed that I need to fly at to save the most fuel. At the same
time, I can also hit M select, or 0, to highlight this range, and if I
highlight any of these pages, it will draw a little carrot on my HUD
of where that optimum speed I need to hold is. So I don't have to keep
referencing the data entry display, I can just look straight at my HUD
and know what speed I need to fly to save the most fuel. So it's
pretty important on the F16 if you're really deep and you want to know
if you're going to make it home with enough fuel. Again, hit return to
go back to the main page. Next important thing is if you go to list,
you'll get all of these options to go to pages that aren't hotkeyed on
your up front controls. The most important of which being this bingo
page, it's labeled by 2, so if I hit 2, I can set the bingo at which
Betty will give me a fuel warning. So say I don't like 2500 pounds, I
want Betty to yell at me when I have 1500 pounds of fuel, I'll type in
1500 and I'll hit enter, and Betty will give me a fuel warning and
call bingo when I have 1500 pounds of fuel left. And again, I can
change that just by typing in any number I want and then hitting
enter. Okay, and with that, that's the quick and dirty of the most
important functions of the up front controls, and next we'll actually
go over some of our air to air and air to ground master modes.
Alrighty, I taught you how to take the aircraft off, so I guess I got
to teach you how to land it. Here we are on final to our runway here,
and make sure when you're coming down on final that you get under 300
knots before you drop that gear, otherwise they'll get ripped off. And
as you can see, this aircraft is really hard to slow down, we're all
the way out at flight idle and it's not coming down any slower. So as
soon as you're under 300 knots, go ahead and drop the gear, and the
flaps are automatic, it also dropped the flaps for us, so that'll
start slowing us way down. And you want to hold about 200 knots on
your way in, and the HUD changes when you put the gear down. One of
the most important things that changes is you get this little dashed
line here that represents 3 degrees, and that is your optimum glide
slope for the way in. So if you put that dotted line right over the
1000 footers for the markers for the runway, and you line your flight
path marker up with that, you'll be perfectly on glide slope all the
way in for the runway. So when you get a little bit closer, start
slowing down, coming down to 180, you want to aim to touch the
aircraft down at about 160 is the optimum speed. And as soon as you
get over the threshold of the runway and you're sure you're going to
make it, go ahead and put the flight path marker towards the horizon
and pull the throttle out and just let it gently set itself down.
Okay, and if I look over the stick right now, my plane will actually
keep its nose in the air and it will aerobrake all the way down the
end of the runway. But just be careful if the runway isn't long enough
for an aerobrake, it's a really short runway, you really got to get on
those wheel brakes soon to drop the nose down out of the air and hold
them until you're all the way stopped, otherwise you're going to skid
right off the end of the runway. And with that, that is the quick and
dirty of how you land the F-16. Alright, now that you know how to take
off and land, we're actually ready to get into some combat here. And
the first thing we're going to talk about is air to air combat and
more specifically, the radar. So the radar is a little bit confusing,
if you've never played a flight sim before that has radar in it.
Basically, the F-16's radar scans in a big cone out in front of it and
can only scan so much area at one time. And to help illustrate this, I
have wonderfully drawn up a demonstration here in Microsoft Paint. So
here in the bottom right, we have a little picture of the MFD with the
radar screen as it would look in game. And then here we have a diagram
of what's actually going on in real life with your actual F-16 being
represented by this picture of an F-16, and enemy fighters or just
aircraft being represented by these red squares. So if you look at the
radar in game, the first thing that you need to know is that this view
right here is a top-down view of what's going on. This number here on
the left is the scale. You can change the scale in game, I think, by
pressing F3 and F4. F3 and F4 are the default keys on the keyboard.
And what that means is that the top of this MFD here is 20 miles. The
middle of this MFD represents targets that are 10 miles away. And if
you see a square at the bottom, it's right on top of you. And these
little white squares here are of course aircraft. And you'll have a
little cursor that you can slew around that's two white vertical bars.
And to the right of that cursor, there will be two numbers, a white
one on top and a blue one on the bottom. And that represents how high
and how low your radar is scanning. So this 20 at the top means that
my radar is scanning up to 20,000 feet, and this blue number at the
bottom means it's scanning all the way down to 9,000 feet. So if there
was a guy below 9,000 feet and in front of me, I wouldn't be able to
see him. Now remember that that is only wherever your cursor is. So if
I move this cursor closer to me so that it was displaying targets
right here at 5 nautical miles, it might only be showing targets from
like 10,000 feet down to 4,000 feet. So just keep that in mind that as
aircraft get closer to you, you're scanning a smaller cone in front of
you. And aircraft that are farther away, you can scan a wider section
of the sky. Okay, there's the last couple numbers here you need to
know about. Here is this A6 and this 4B. The A6, there changes how
wide you're scanning left, right. And if you hit F8 by default on the
keyboard, you'll actually narrow your scan down. You'll get two bars
on the left and right, and you can cycle between A6, A3, and A1, and
it will change how wide you're scanning. At the same time, this 4B
means that your radar is making four sweeps of the sky. So it'll make
one sweep of the sky from left to right at this altitude, and then
it'll transition down and it'll make another sweep of the sky at this
altitude. And then it'll come down and make another sweep of the sky
at this altitude, and then it'll come down one more and make a sweep
of the sky at this altitude before resetting back up to the top and
scanning all the way down. You can change this to 2B or 1B, and it
will change from scanning four different areas to just one area. So
you could narrow how high your radar is scanning. Instead of scanning
it from 20,000 feet to 9,000 feet, you could tell it to only scan at
say 20,000 feet by changing this to 1B. And then these numbers on the
right, 1, 2, 3, 4, if you press the MFD button next to them, it will
actually put a 1, 2, 3, or 4 over the target that you selected, and it
will data link it to all of your flightmates if you've got that going.
And with that, that's the quick and dirty of how radar works in the
air. It's a little bit confusing, but hopefully it'll become a little
more clear as we actually get in the game and show it to you.
Alrighty, now that you know a little bit about how the radar works,
we're actually ready to load up the air-to-air radar mode to active
engagement and play the radar and actually shoot some missiles. So
we're going to go ahead and commit here. And just a word of warning,
things happen kind of fast because these aircraft are actually closing
at us pretty fast, so I'll just pause and unpause the mission kind of
quickly to demonstrate something to you before unpausing it. So we're
going to go ahead and pause the mission right now real quick. And if
we'll come down here and look at our radar, our FCR, you'll see that
we've got four little boxes, little squares here, and those are all
aircraft returns that our radar has gotten. And let's say we wanted to
lock this guy here that's at 20,000 feet, and we know that he's at
20,000 feet because when we move our cursor over to touch him, it will
pop up his range in white text just below the square. So to lock a
target, all you do is move this cursor over the target that you want
to lock and you hit TMS up once. So I'm going to go ahead and do that
real quick and then repause. Okay, so when we hit TMS up once, we do
what we're calling soft locking the guy, which means that we're not
devoting all of our radar's energy to locking him. We're actually
using some of the energy to lock him and some of the energy to
continue to scan for targets around him. So I can see the guy here I'm
locking at 20,000 feet because he's got a little yellow circle around
him, but I can also see white squares of targets that are around him
because my radar is still scanning. I'll get some information about
the target too and I'll lock him up, the most important of which is
his altitude there at 20,000, and also there's a little yellow line
that shows his direction of travel. And the longer that line is, the
faster he's going. So he's got a really short line, it means he's
going really slow. There's also a couple numbers here at the top. This
number here in the top left, 170, means it's his current heading. He's
heading 170. This number in the top right, it's his speed. He's going
345 knots. This number right here, this 826K with a plus means we're
closing 826 knots. If that was a minus instead of a plus, it would
mean that he was going away from us at 826 knots. Or, yeah, we were
losing speed at 826 knots. These two white numbers here in the bottom
left represent his bullseye location. So this target is currently from
bullseye bearing 143 and it's 76 miles away from bullseye. And then
these blue numbers here in the bottom left are my bearing and distance
from bullseye. Okay, so now what we're going to do is we're going to
go ahead and press TMS up one more time while selecting it while our
cursor is over him and this will hard lock him. Okay, so now that
we're hard locking him, all of our radar energy is going towards
tracking this one target. And as a result, we can't see any of the
other targets around him, but all of our radar is going towards
keeping track of this one guy. So there's the least amount of chance
that we're going to lose the lock. And we're actually ready to fire a
missile at him right now, but there's a couple things that we've got
to do before that. First thing you notice is that we're actually in a
nav mode here and we can't fire missiles in nav mode. You've got to
put the aircraft into air-to-air mode. So one of the ways you can do
that is you can hit air-to-air on the upfront controls or you can hit
enter on the keyboard, which is the key command to cycle between which
kind of missiles you're going to fire. So right now we have four
AMRAAMs and two Sidewinders. And if I hit enter on the keyboard, it
would cycle between whether or not I was going to shoot an AMRAAM or a
Sidewinder at him. So I'm going to go ahead and unpause and hit enter
to select AMRAAMs. Okay, so now I've got some different symbols here
in my HUD and you'll notice that my HUD has changed. Instead of nav
mode, it says four MRMs, which means I've got four medium range
missiles or AMRAAMs left. And then also my master arm is on is what
this arm means because your master arm has to be on before you can
fire missiles. We also get some new symbology here on the right and in
the middle of the HUD, which is also replicated here on your radar.
And I'm just going to talk through what this symbology means here. So
on the right here, this is basically the range of the target, but it's
the range of the target and it also indicates the percent chance that
your missile is going to hit the target if you fired it right now. So
this carrot here on the left with the 854 and the 3F will move up and
down the scale here on the right depending on the distance. If he's
really far away, the carrot would be way up here towards the top. And
this 854 is just his closure speed again and this 3F represents his
range from us again. So here on the right, we'll just start at the top
here. This little triangle here at the top represents the maximum
range I can fire the missile at. So if this carrot is above the
triangle here, I can't fire the missile. If this carrot is in line
with this circle right here, it means I can fire the missile and if he
doesn't maneuver at all, the missile will just barely make it there.
If this carrot comes down into this region with a solid line, it means
that I have a 60-70% chance of the missile hitting. He could probably
still turn around and use full afterburner to outrun the missile. And
if the carrot gets all the way down into this solid box region, it
means there's a guaranteed kill. It means that that guy can't do
anything. Even if he turned around and used full afterburner, he
couldn't outrun the missile. The missile is always going to hit. And
then this circle here that's flashing right now represents our shoot
window. So if this little circle right here represents where we need
to put our nose to have a shoot window. So if this circle comes way
outside of the big circle, it means that my nose is pointing away from
the guy or something and I can't fire the missile and have it turn
around. So if I center the dot, which means I put this little circle
right in the middle of this big circle, it means that my missile won't
have to turn at all to reach the target. If this little circle is way
out here towards the edge, the missile might have to do a really high
G turn to get off my plane and hit the guy. So as a rule of thumb, you
always want to center the dot before you fire the missile. And with
that, we're actually ready to fire the missile. So we're going to
unpause and we're going to hold our weapon release button until the
missile fires. And the call for an AMRAM is FOX3. And you'll notice
that when my guy called pitbull on the top left, that means that the
missile has started using its own guidance. And there's a splash. And
in case you didn't notice, it draws a square over your target and if
it's off your HUD, it will draw a line towards that target wherever it
is. Okay, and the same thing goes for Sidewinders. If I hit enter to
select short range missiles, I'll get the same range cues and
everything as I did for the AMRAM. You'll just notice that it's a much
shorter range missile. So again, I see this carrot moving down on the
bottom right side of the screen. And it's usually a good idea to wait
until it gets into this line region here before I fire the missile.
And same thing with a Sidewinder, you just lock them up, wait until
you've got a good shot, and then you hold the missile release weapon
to fire the missile. And the call for a Sidewinder is FOX2. And this
might not hit because as you noticed, we shot a little bit beyond
range. There you go, it still hit. And with that, that's all you need
to know to use missiles to guide missiles using the radar in a BVR
situation. And next we'll talk about dogfight mode. Alrighty, so here
we are. And let's say everything goes south and you're out of missiles
and now it's time to gunsfight with someone. So now we're going to
talk you through dogfight mode. So right now we're still in air-to-air
mode. And we have enemy F-14 Tomcat logged up that we're going to
start dogfighting here. And what happens when I unpause is I'm going
to put the plane in dogfight mode. And by default, you press D to go
into dogfight mode and you hit C to cancel that or get out of dogfight
mode and go back to nav or air-to-air or whatever you were in last.
And I'll sort of talk you through what you need to do when you're
dogfighting and some of the symbology. But as a rule of thumb, the
F-16 dogfights at a very fast speed. So you want to try and hold about
400 knots whenever you're turning and that will get you your maximum
turn rate. So we're going to go ahead and hit D and go into dogfight
mode and you'll see our HUD gets super clean here. And also, one thing
I also forgot is when you're dogfighting is you can hit shift insert a
couple times to turn on your helmet sight. And when you're dogfighting
with someone, you can hold TMS up long to get a little circle and if
you move the circle over the enemy plane, it will lock him. And again,
always try and hold 400 for your best turn rate. We're coming around,
we'll try and pull the trigger here, not that time. So again, very
important, you don't let yourself get too slow. You always want to
hold 400 knots in the F-16 and you can see that's your speed there in
the top left. And unfortunately, my foe has just wrecked into the
ground. But regardless, the same principles still apply whenever
you're fighting stupid F-14s or actual MiG-29s. The F-16 dogfights
fast, so no matter what you do, you want to hold about 400 knots. I
see a lot of pilots online that pull as far back on the stick as they
can, but you don't want to do that. You want to hold 400 knots as the
magic number in the F-16 to get your maximum turn rate. And if you're
getting too slow, just let off the turn and get back up to speed. It
will help you out in the long run. And while we're here, we might as
well talk about some symbology that I was going to talk about when I
fired my gun at that guy, but he killed himself for me. So what I'm
going to do is, this is the holy thing that you need to know in
dogfight mode. This cross right here is your gun cross. That's where
your bolts are going to go if you pull the trigger. And this gun
funnel here at the bottom will move with the funnel. And it's there to
help you line up where your shots are going to go. But honestly, I
don't use most of that stuff. I just use my gun cross and when I get
close enough, just put your gun cross a little bit in front of the
aircraft you're trying to kill and pull the trigger and walk your
targets on. If the tracers are going behind him, just pull back a
little bit more until they're going in front of him. And don't let all
the symbology get in the way of you. Just watch where your tracers are
going and walk the tracers onto the target. And that's about the best
advice I can give for quick and dirty dogfighting. Again, it takes a
lot of practice to get good at it. And remember to get out of dogfight
mode, just hit C on the keyboard and you'll go back to whatever mode
you were in last. And with that, that's quick and dirty of dogfight
mode. And I assure you, most of your targets will not wreck themselves
into the ground for you. Alright, now that we're done with air to air,
we're actually going to go learn how to drop laser guided bombs on
targets. We're going to start with our air to ground now. And just
note, for now, we're not going to worry about the air to ground radar.
We're just going to go over how to use a targeting pod and drop laser
guided bombs. Okay, so first thing we need to do here is the target
area is at 0.5, so we're going to hit S to select that. And we also
need to get out of nav mode and into air to ground mode. So we're
going to hit backspace, which is the default key to cycle hard points
between what kind of air to ground weapon you're going to drop. And
again, by default, here it'll pull up the FCR, which is now in air to
ground mode. We're not going to worry about any of this right now.
We're just going to hit CZ to center it on Steer Point 5. And by
default, my targeting pod will slew to my radar. So if my radar is in
Steer Point 5, my targeting pod is as well. So now we're going to turn
on our targeting pod. We're going to press the targeting pod button.
We're going to click standby, and then we're going to go to air to
ground. And now I'm going to hit DMS down to make my targeting pod
sensor of interest. And I'm going to hit TMS up once to put it in area
mode, and now I can suit around. And then you'll suit around and
you'll find a target. And you can press the sensor of interest field
of view cycle to zoom in a little bit. And let's find a target here.
Let's drop on these F4 phantoms over here. Okay. And now, before we
start the attack, we want to make sure that our master arm and our
laser arm is also on since we're dropping laser-cutter bombs. And
we'll see this vertical line here, which is where I need to fly my
aircraft to get this drop. I want this vertical line to be lined up
perfectly with my flight path marker for a good drop. And here in the
bottom right, we'll see our distance to target here, and then the
number above that is our time to first drop. This first number we see,
20 seconds, is the countdown timer to lobbing the bomb. So in 15
seconds, if we wanted, we could press the weapon release button while
pulling the nose back, and we would actually lob the bomb. But we
don't want to do that. We're going to wait for this to pass, and then
we'll get a second time. You can see this time's countdown. And we let
that window pass because we're not going to lob the bomb. And now
there's 20 seconds to a normal release. And you can see this little
line coming down at us. When this line is even with our flight path
marker, that's when we're going to drop the bomb. So about 5 seconds
before, we're going to hold the weapon release button. Hold it down,
don't release it. And as soon as that line meets our flight path
marker, the bomb will drop. And there it is, pay-boy. And now we can
release. So now we're going to go back down to our targeting pod, and
we're going to make sure that we keep our targeting pod on the target.
It doesn't stray anywhere. If it's a tank, we're going to track it.
And about 6 seconds before the bomb hits, that little L in the bottom
right will start flashing, and that means our laser's on. And it will
automatically turn the laser on for you. You don't have to worry about
any of that. And there it is, target destroyed. And the laser will
stay on for a little bit after, just to make sure the bomb finds its
target. And with that, that is the quick and dirty of dropping laser-
guided bombs. Alright, now that we went over LGBs, we're actually
ready to learn how to use HARMS, which are anti-radiation missiles
used to attack enemy surface-to-air missile sites. Okay, first thing
you've got to do when you get here on the plane is you'll notice that
we're in NAV mode again. So we're going to hit backspace to go into
air-to-ground mode and select HARMS. And HARMS are also a missile that
you have to activate, you have to turn them on. So we're going to come
down here to our SMS page, and with HARMS selected there, so you have
four AGM-88s, which are HARMS, we're going to hit the power on button.
And now they're turned on. Then, we're going to come down here to our
left MFD and we're going to pull up our HAD. And again, if these
aren't on the bottom of MFDs, you can press any one of these bottom
three MFD buttons and then replace it with the proper MFD screen. So
we're going to put the HAD up here. So, looking here at the HAD, these
yellow and green numbers and letters represent different radar
emission sites that we found. So this 2 represents an SA-2 site, this
3 is an SA-3 site, this U is an unknown site, and these S's are
searches. And this green means that it's not actively emitting, but
our HAD remembers that there was something there. And if any of these
numbers are red, it means that they're shooting at someone, they're
putting out an unusually high amount of radiation. So let's say we
want to kill this SA-3 site over here. We're going to make our HAD,
our SOE, by using DMS down. And then we're going to slew our cursor
over it and hit TMS up to lock it up and there will be a little square
over it. Now on our HUD, we're going to turn into the target, which is
indicated by this line coming off our gun cross. And just like the
AMRAAM, this carrot here on the right represents our range. And once
this carrot is inside this box, or this circle is flashing, we have a
good shooting and fire the missile. So we're going to go ahead and
fire the missile now. And the call for shooting harm is a magnum, and
that's fire and forget. If I wanted to, I could totally turn around
and run away now. The missile is on its merry way and I don't have to
do anything else. But just be advised that SAM sites are kind of smart
sometimes. If you turn around and run, they might turn their radar off
so that the missile won't hit because they don't have any chance of
shooting missiles at you. So sometimes it's a good idea to keep flying
towards the target, but again, be careful not to shoot at someone. You
don't have to. Once you've fired the missile, it's fire and forget and
it's on its merry way and it's going to hit the target. And with that,
that's all you need to know about harms. Alright, now you know how to
use harms in laser guided bombs. Now we're going to go over how using
dumb bombs. And it doesn't sound like you're ever going to want to use
dumb bombs on a fancy F-16, but dumb bombs are actually how you... The
way you drop dumb bombs is the same way you drop runway bombs for
attacking runaways. So it's so important to know how to use these
modes. We're going to go over how to drop iron bombs in CCIP mode. So
again, we're in nav mode and we need to get into air-to-ground mode.
So we're going to hit backspace to smash this into air-to-ground mode.
And we're going to come down here to our SMS page. And you can see in
the top right there, this is the kind of weapon we have selected. So
we can cycle between our two different kinds of bombs. We're going to
practice with the BD-33s, which are just a dumb bomb without an
explosive in it. And you'll notice here I've got all these options
about the bomb. I can set whether I want to drop a single or a pair,
and how many I want to ripple. I can drop one bomb or I can drop three
bombs. But for now, we're just going to ripple one bomb off. And if I
want to change it from CCRP to CCIP, I'm just going to hit this top
MMT button and select CCIP. And now, you'll see that I've got some
different symbols here in my HUD. And I've got this big old line
coming from my flight path marker down to this little circle here. And
that's where my bomb is going to hit when I press the weapon release
button. So it's as simple as putting this little circle over whatever
I want to drop the bomb on, and pressing the weapon release button. So
we're going to go ahead and drop on those four targets there in the
middle. And just put the circle over it and hit the button. And the
F-16 actually uses its radar to calculate CCIP solutions. So CCIP bomb
drops in F-16 are actually really accurate, as you can see. So again,
it's as easy as just putting the little circle over whatever you want
to die, and just press the weapon release button to drop however many
bombs you want. And with that, that's everything you need to know
about CCIP. Alright, the last air-to-ground weapon we're going to go
over today is the MAVRC, the air-to-ground MAVRC. And we'll also go
over a little bit of the radar modes here, because this missile takes
a while to spool up here. So it takes about three minutes to align the
weapon. So the first thing we're going to do is we're in NAV mode
again, so we're going to hit backspace to get an air-to-ground. And
we're going to start spooling up our MAVRCs. So we're going to go to
our SMS page, and we're going to hit power on, and make sure that
power on is for both of our MAVRC sets, both our Ds and our Bs. And
then if you go back over here to your left MFD, both on your FCR and
your weapon page, you'll see a countdown timer here in the bottom left
that shows you approximately how much time is remaining for the
missile to be ready to use. So we've got about two minutes. So for
those two minutes, I'll kind of briefly walk over the air-to-ground
radar. So by default, when you go into air-to-ground mode, you'll get
this SDR page, which is GM mode. That's what this top left here means.
And this radar is returning only stationary targets. So all of these
white little specks here on the radar, those are stationary targets
that I have returned. So most of the time, they're just buildings. But
if you see a long, straight line like you do right there, that usually
means it's an enemy column stopped and parked. The radar has one more
old trick up its sleeve. If you hit that top left button where it says
GM, and you select GMT, this is now ground moving target mode. And now
my radar is only returning things that are moving. So that means
vehicles. So now everything that shows up on this radar screen is
something that's moving. So if I see a big old white spec or line, I
know that it's a column of targets because I know that anything that I
show up now on this screen is moving. So I'm going to put that back in
GM for now. And if we go and look at our window, we'll see there's
actually a big old armor battle going on down there. But
unfortunately, our Mavericks aren't quite yet ready to... sorry,
aren't quite ready yet. So we're going to have to loophole that to
wait for those to get spooled up the rest of the way. Alrighty, so
here we are again with our Mavericks all spooled up. And by default,
the Maverick is in pre-mode. But I actually like to put it into visual
mode. And you just press this button to cycle through different kinds,
and I like to put it in visual mode. And what that does is it actually
puts up a little square here on your HUD that you can slew around to
move over the target area. But before you can see an image on your
Maverick, you have to uncage it, which is you by default on the
keyboard. And now you actually get an image in your Maverick secret
head that you can use. So once you've kind of oriented yourself with
the target, just move the crosshairs over the target you want to
engage and hit TMS up. And once you hit TMS up and you've got a good
lock, the crosshair will stop flashing. And once this carrot is inside
of this bracket here on the right, you're in range, and you can go
ahead and hit the open release button to fire the Maverick. And every
time you fire a Maverick, you have to uncage the next one to be able
to see a secret head. So every time you fire a Maverick, you hit that
uncage button to fire another one. And with that, that is everything
you need to know about firing Mavricks. Alrighty, there is one last
thing I want to show you guys before I turn you loose, and that's how
to play online with friends. So if a friend of yours has BMS and he
wants to host a game, you come up here to your comms, and you'll
create a new entry for him. And you'll name the entry in your logbook
whatever you want, and then you have to type in the IP address to his
server, whatever it happens to be, like so. And then you also have to
specify a connection bandwidth. So this will actually tell BMS how
much of your upload speed to use. So if you've only got a 1 megabit
per second upload internet connection, you might want to put in like
800 megabits in here so that BMS isn't using all of your upload. And
if you put in this blank, it will use the maximum amount of upload and
then everything else will start lagging. It's kind of finicky. There's
no safeguards on it. At the same time, if you want to host a game for
a friend, you'll also come into those comms and instead of putting in
an IP address, you'll put in all zeros in here. And then this
connection bandwidth will be how much of your upload you want to have
available for other people to use on your server. So if you've got
like a 10 megabit per second upload, you might want to set this to
like 9,000 or something. And that will use 9 megabits of your upload
speed for hosting. Because again, if you don't put anything in here,
it's going to use all of your upload speed for just one person who
connects to your server and everything is going to start lagging. And
if you want to host an IVC server, which is the in-game VoIP, you can
just check these boxes. And for the dedicated IVC server, you'll put
in the same IP you do for when you're connecting to your friend's
server. And once you're connected, if he made a campaign, you'll come
to campaign and you'll come to the online tab. And if you're not
already connected, it will just bring up this comms page again. And
then you'll see your friend's campaign here on this online tab.
Alternatively, if he starts a dogfight, you have to go to dogfight and
click the online tab. And he'll make games under these tabs for you to
join. And with that, that's everything you need to know about joining
an online game. Alright, that concludes the weapons portion of this
tutorial. By now you should know how to use all the weapons in the
F16. Now I'm going to show you how to start and some of the ins and
outs of starting your first campaign in this game. So we're going to
go up here and select campaign. And then there's three different
campaigns you can play. This top one is a blue floor advantage, this
middle one is neutral, and the bottom one is an op floor advantage.
This is going to play as a middle one, rolling fire. And you're going
to select the squadron you want to fly out of. We're going to pick the
36, make sure it's got F16s. And we'll hit commit. And it will first
ask you the mission priorities that you want to set, but by default I
just have this set by HQ. And then you'll go ahead and click start
campaign. And within a couple of seconds here, the blue floor
commander should automatically give you submissions for your squadron.
And you can select any mission you want to fly assigned by the
commander. Let's say I want to fly in this bar cap. Or we'll take this
other one here, 543. Let's say I want to fly in this bar cap. All I
have to do to fly in this bar cap is I'll select the role I want to
fly. Here I'll take flight lead. And before I go out I can set some
data cartridge options. Remember here in your data cartridge you can
set your chaff and flare programs as well as your MFDs. It's important
here to always remember to set your tower frequency to something. I
always set the tower to uniform 15 is what I always do. You can just
come here to preset number 15 on your UHF radio and hit set tower. And
it will automatically change that frequency to the tower. There's a
couple other things you can do with your data cartridge. You can draw
lines that will show up on your map in game. How you do that is you
right click anywhere on the map and come down here to steer point
lines and you can draw up to 4 different lines. Go ahead and add an
additional steer point in line 1. And you can keep adding points to
this line until you've drawn the shape that you want. I always like to
draw the DMZ so I know whether or not I'm north or south. Whether I'm
in enemy or friendly territory. Let's say during this next mission I'm
flying out here and I find an SA-2 site over here on the coast. I can
also add a pre-planned threat steer point by right clicking the map
and going to set a pre-planned threat steer point. And it will be a
little green diamond and I can move it around and put it wherever I
thought the site was. And then I can double click on it and select
what kind of site it was. Say I found an SA-2 site out there. You can
select SA-2 and you can also change which steer point it is in your
aircraft. So I can say that steer point 56 is the SA-2 site and I know
the steer clear there. And once I've changed all that I'll hit accept
and you'll see it will draw a red circle in game as well as in this
map. Just letting you know if there's an SA-2 site there and that's
it's engagement range. Next thing before I go out is to set my
loadout. So I'll come down here to my loadout. And I have my plane and
my wingman here and I can change both of our loadouts or adjust myself
or the other depending on which one I have highlighted. So in here
under the loadout screen you have all of the possible munitions you
can take and to load on your aircraft you just find this corresponding
pylon and load it up. And I like to take all AMRAAMs by default. My
philosophy is that you've got your gun for anything that gets close to
you. And I always think 6 AMRAAMs is better to take than 4 AMRAAMs and
2 Sidewinders or anything like that. And it's a good idea to always
take the jammer there. That's under all and it's the ALQ-184. And
since we don't need anything on those inner pylons, we can't carry
missiles there, I go and take a couple of fuel bags. And just because
I always get into a habit of always taking the targeting pod and the
HTS. Those are always good habits to get into. Just to always take
though because you never know. And you'll hit OK when you're done with
that. And just a good habit is to make sure you click save on your
data cartridge before you fly. And with that you're actually ready to
go into the game world and fly your sortie. So we'll go ahead and
click take off. And we'll select runway unless you want to RAM start.
If you really like RAM starting the jet you can select RAM start every
time and it will give you 20 minutes to your take off time to RAM
start the aircraft. But for now we're just going to click runway. If
you don't want to sit at the screen you can watch what's going on in
the campaign. You can speed up the time to 64x here in the game screen
but just make sure you don't go past your take off time which is 5.43
for us. And this just gives you a little better idea of what you're
going up against. So we're going to go ahead and recommit take off so
it goes by our time. And we'll take off and we'll fly our sortie. Ok
so here we are flying our sortie and there's just a few more things I
want to show you guys before I set you loose. As you'll notice here on
my HSD here's the line I drew for the DMZ and there's that SA2 site
that I set. And this little circle right here is the bullseye. So when
you get into game you're going to be talking to AWACS a lot. And how
you get to talk to AWACS is you press Q to bring up this menu. And
what you're going to do most of the time is hit Q twice to cycle to
the second menu and you press 1 to request a vector to the threat. And
this is just how you keep your situation and what's going on. So she
told us that there's MIG21s at Bullseye 2-5 at 15. So how we figure
out where that is, is if we make our HSD our sensor of interest by
hitting DMS down we can move a little cursor around that will tell us.
And you see in the bottom left here, this is the Bullseye location of
this cursor. So I can just move this around until it says 2-3-5 for
15. 2-3-5 for 15. Okay, so more or less those MIGs are somewhere to
our left close to Bullseye. And anytime we ask AWACS it's how we're
going to figure out where the enemy bandits are. And since we're
flying a bar cap it's our job to get out here and take down enemy
bandits. So I'm going to go ahead and go to air to air mode by hitting
enter. I'm going to turn my master mode on. I'm going to turn my
master on there. And I'm going to turn my radar to start looking out
towards Bullseye where AWACS is called, where those MIGs are being
from. Now if you look at the FCR you'll notice I see a bunch of yellow
carrots here. And what that means is that that person has their ECM on
which means they're jamming my radar and I can't get a good range on
them. But as I get closer that will eventually go away and I'll get a
good lock on the target. So let's say there are friendlies in the
area. So let's say I have a radar return on this guy right here but I
have no idea whether or not he's friendly. I can pull up the AWACS
menu again and I can press Q and then 2 and ask for a declare. And
AWACS will come back and tell me whether or not the target I'm locking
is friendly or enemy. And if she's got enough information she'll
actually tell me what type of aircraft it is. If your AWACS is down or
destroyed or whatever you can also pull up your targeting pod here and
click standby and put it in air to air mode. And this guy is too far
away but your targeting pod will look at whatever you're locking. So I
locked up this F-16 over here and I can look at my targeting pod and I
can tell... Oh, that's an F-16. And my targeting pod will
automatically slew to whatever I've locked on my FCR and that's a much
faster way of identifying targets. So if I was to lock something and I
saw a MUC-29 in my targeting pod I'd obviously know it's friendly...
Or sorry, enemy, and I wouldn't have to ask AWACS for that declare
because you can get pretty backed up sometimes. And the last thing you
need to know that I forgot about a long time ago was putting your
aircraft in cat3 or cat1 stores config. This basically, in cat3 your
aircraft is limited to how many Gs it can pull because we're carrying
big fuel bags and if we pulled too many Gs we'd rip them right off.
But if I dump my fuel bags, let's say I do an emergency storage
jettison which dumps everything that is in an air to air weapon... And
now all I've got is MRAMs. I'll get a master caution telling me that
I'm not in cat1 which means that I'm in the wrong stores config. So I
can put myself into cat1 now and this master caution will go away and
that now means that my aircraft is unlimited in its Gs. I can pull the
maximum possible Gs that my aircraft can sustain. Whereas when I'm in
cat3 my aircraft automatically limits itself so it doesn't pull more
Gs than my ordnance can sustain. So just be sure whenever you dump all
of your air to ground ordnance to go back to cat1. And alternatively
if you have air to ground ordnance make sure you're in cat3 otherwise
you're going to break something. And with that, that concludes my
tutorial on Falcon BMS and hopefully you know everything you need to
get started with this game. Again you can personal message me if you
have any questions and again the best way to start learning this stuff
is to go run a campaign or do tactical engagements and just start
flying the aircraft. And as you go on you'll learn what needs to be
mapped to what and you'll start getting the hang of it. And again best
of luck in your future F-16 knitters. Thank you. Hello everyone, this
is Crosscheck and welcome to starting your first Falcon BMS campaign.
This video of course is intended for new players that already have the
simulator installed and configured. If you are a new player and
haven't gone through the basics of setting everything up check my
Falcon BMS Beginners Guide. That is going to be extremely helpful for
you. I would recommend that video first before this one. But nah, you
can still do whatever you want. Anyway, link to that video is in this
video's description. Anyway, even though this video is intended for
new players it may still prove useful to people with a couple of hours
in it already and or entertaining for even veterans. So be sure to
stick around. Let's start by launching, well, the launcher. Of course
we are using the Falcon BMS alternative launcher. This is the only way
to go. And before opening BMS let me tell you some of the really cool
things that we are going to be doing on this video. We are going to of
course launch this.