\

testloiierattarss.

FALCON’40

references for your position on the route, your steerpoints, and your target area.

FLIGHT INSTRUMENTATION

The preceding figures provide a logical flow of the cockpit layout and each of the aircraft instruments. Now we begin a functional explanation for using your instruments in flight.

To improve your basic flying skills, it helps to group instruments into three categories by func- tion: control, performance, and navigation. Control- ling your aircraft attitude and power is the first priority. Remember from our discussion on basic aerodynamics that this means controlling your angle of attack (AOA) with pitch and controlling your thrust to drag relationship with power. After applying control inputs, monitor your performance to make sure you are maintaining your desired course of navigation and flight path.

Control Instruments

These instruments provide measured indications of attitude and power. Attitude is displayed in degrees of pitch and bank. Power can be monitored with the percentage of throttle used or pounds per hour of fuel flow.

ATTITUDE DIRECTOR INDICATOR (ADI)

More than just an “attitude indicator,” the ADI shows both the pitch and roll attitude of the aircraft as well as some course guidance information for instrument approaches. Think of the ADI as a pic- ture of the world in front of you. The horizon line divides the ADI in half; blue on top represents sky and brown on bottom represents the ground.

Horizontal pitch marks show degrees of pitch. Each mark represents 5 degrees of pitch. Tick marks surrounding the bottom edge show degrees of bank; each mark is 15 degrees. The aircraft symbol represents your attitude in relation to the horizon. The center dot on the symbol represents the nose of the aircraft. Refer to figure 8-5 for a description of the ADI.

Horizon pitch marks

J ¥ f

Fig. 8-5. Attitude director indicator (ADI)

As you make a turn, the ADI's horizon stays level with the real horizon. Since the aircraft symbol on the display is tied to the aircraft, you will see the same bank in relation to the ADIs horizon as the aircraft has in relation to the real horizon. To estab- lish a specific amount of bank in a turn, line up the vertical line on the ADI horizon display with the appropriate tick mark on the bottom edge of the ADI.To establish a climb or descent, pull the nose up or push the nose over and set your desired pitch attitude.

The same pitch and course information dis- played on the ADI is also displayed in the HUD. There is an obvious advantage to having this infor- mation available as you look around outside the cockpit; you'll find yourself using primarily the HUD display. There are times, however, when you will be looking around without either the center console or the HUD in your field of view. When this is the case, several viewing options display the ADI ina small reference window or on the SA bar. This can be a very helpful cue in maintaining a certain flight attitude, such as a turn or climb, so you can focus your primary attention elsewhere.FALCON’ 40

The ADI also displays course steering bars to use during an approach for landing. If you are out- side the limits of the signal, these bars will be fully deflected to the side and top of the ADI's display. This function will be covered in more detail later in the“COMM and NAV Control” section.

FUEL FLOW INDICATOR

This digital indicator located directly below the data entry display (DED) shows total fuel flow to the engine in pounds per hour. This is considered a control instrument because it is a very reliable way to establish a power setting to maintain a desired airspeed during cruise. Obviously it will take differ- ent fuel flows to maintain your airspeed with differ- ent aircraft configurations, but you can get in the ballpark. Begin by “setting” a fuel flow that will get you close to your desired cruise airspeed and then adjust from there.

Obviously, in combat you don't care too much about your fuel flow; when you need the power you use it. Keep in mind, however, that you can see some amazing fuel flow rates in AB, so if you're get- ting low on gas, be careful about dumping too much out the back end. If you get a fuel leak from battle damage, your fuel flow might be the only indication.

POWER SETTING INDICATIONS

In the bottom left corner of the HUD (and in the ref- erence window displayed in some of the viewing options) a digital readout shows power setting in RPM. Refer to the RPM gauge for a description.

When you get wrapped up in a fight, this read- out can help remind you about your throttle posi- tion. You'll soon realize how easy this is to forget. When you find yourself losing airspeed rapidly, check your power setting—you probably forgot to “push it up.”

Performance Instruments

These instruments tell you how the aircraft is actu- ally performing based on your control inputs. Are you climbing, descending, turning, or accelerating? After you set your pitch, bank, and power, refer to these instruments to monitor your performance.

AIRSPEED/MACH INDICATOR

Airspeed can be monitored in several places in Fal- con.The primary indicators for this are in the center console and HUD. The HUD scale will be described later. The indicator on your center console consists of a dial with an airspeed range from 80 to 800 knots, shown around the outside of the dial. This is a direct measurement of your airspeed based on the force of your aircraft moving through the air molecules, called “indicated airspeed” (IAS) or “cali- brated airspeed” (CAS). In the center of the dial is a window showing a digital Mach readout of your air- speed.

The Mach number is an indication of airspeed as a factor of the speed of sound. For example, Mach 1.2 equals 1.2 times the speed of sound at the present altitude. Remember that Mach varies according to air density, so at Mach 1 (or 1.0 times the speed of sound) your CAS will not equal the same CAS for Mach 1 at another altitude.

In addition to Mach and calibrated airspeed readouts, there are three other measurements of airspeed that can be displayed in the HUD: True air- speed (TAS), Ground speed (GS), and Mach. TAS is your CAS with air density factored in. As altitude increases (or air density decreases) your TAS will increase for a given CAS.When you take your TAS and factor in the wind, you get your GS.

Since the amount of air moving over the wings is a factor in lift, CAS is the most useful indication of turn performance during a fight. At 30,000 ft. you could be flying 450 knots TAS, but this might only be 290 knots of CAS. This is why you normally select CAS on your HUD airspeed scale.When your HUD or center console are not in your field of view, refer to the SA bar or look for a digital indication of your airspeed in a reference window.

ALTIMETER

Because your altimeter indicates your altitude by measuring air pressure (a barometric reading), your altitude will be an above-sea-level elevation, called mean sea level (MSL).When flying over land, this could obviously be much different from your alti- tude above ground level (called AGL). Your altime- ter might indicate 7,000 ft. MSL, but if you happen to be flying over high terrain, you’ might only be 2,000 ft. AGL—something to think about before try-a

FALCON’40

ing that split S maneuver into the ground! Your radar altimeter measures your altitude above the

ground, and this information can also be found in your HUD.

ANGLE OF ATTACK (AOA) INDICATOR

Instead of a dial, the AOA indicator uses a numeric scale on a moving tape. The range of the scale is from -5 degrees to +32 degrees of AOA. As your angle of attack changes, the tape will slide up and down to put your current AOA reading at the cen- ter of the indicator.

To review a description of AOA, refer back to the “Aerodynamics Forces” section in Chapter 6.When you tangle it up with the enemy and need to max perform the Falcon, you don't really care what your AOA indicates. All you care about is reaching the highest AOA the jet will allow, which generates the maximum amount of lift available, thus gaining the greatest turn performance possible. (In case you missed it, that last sentence just completely sum- marized everything a fighter pilot needs to know about aerodynamic forces for aerial combat.)

So why do we need an AOA indication? There are only two times this is really important. Hope- fully the time you won't need it is for confirming a deep stall indication (described in Chapter 6).In this case, your AOA will be “pegged” (or stuck at the end of the scale) at -5 degrees of AOA if you are upside down in an inverted deep stall, or pegged above +30 degrees in an upright deep stall.

The other time you will refer to an AOA indica- tion is during any landing approach. This could include a flameout approach when you are gliding in without your engine running—another time you hope you don’t need to look at AOA. Your AOA actually helps you maintain the optimum airspeed for your approach.

AOA and airspeed work hand-in-hand, but there's a reason to use AOA in the Falcon as an indi- cation rather than flying directly off of airspeed. The ideal airspeed for an approach differs depending on your gross weight.When you are landing heavy with ordnance and fuel remaining, you must fly faster to maintain the correct AOA for landing. Your ideal AOA for an approach never changes—it is always 11-13 degrees in the Falcon. Maintaining the proper approach airspeed places you over the end of the runway with just enough extra airspeed

to pull the power, flare the jet, and slow to landing speed for the touchdown.

AOA INDEXER

The indexer on the left side of the HUD provides a simple visual reference for your AOA at approach speeds. Even though these lights work continu- ously, they are only important during your final approach to landing. The indexer consists of three vertically arranged, colored symbols that give you an indication for having too high, too low, or the proper AOA on final, as shown in figure 8-6.

Fig. 8-6. AOA indications from different conditions on final approach

To fly the appropriate final approach airspeed, maintain your ideal AOA for the approach, 13 degrees. At this AOA, the center green circle will be illuminated.

An AOA that is too low (below 11 degrees AOA) indicates you are too fast. The lower amber arrow will be illuminated on the indexer. Continue this AOA down to landing and you will find yourself floating down the runway before you can get the jet on the ground. If you are below your desired glide path for the approach, pitch the nose up to slow down and get back on glide slope. If you are already on the right glide path or too high, you have no choice but to pull your power to get slowed down.

Ahigh AOA on the approach (15 degrees or more) indicates that you are too slow. The red upper arrow will be lit. Continue this down to land- ing and you could stall the jet and slam your tailFALCON’ 40

end into the runway. If you are above your desired glide path, pitch the nose down to increase air- speed and get back on glide slope. If you are on or below your desired glide path, you must add power to get your airspeed back and pull your nose up to maintain or regain the proper glide path.

To give you a visual cue for AOA indications dur- ing approach speeds, the AOA indicator tape is color-coded between 9 degrees and 17 degrees with the same colors that correspond with the AOA indexer lights.

This is a performance instrument because you should first set your pitch to maintain the desired glide path and set your power to maintain the approach speed (both control instruments). You then monitor your AOA to assess your performance on the approach and make appropriate pitch and power adjustments when needed.

VERTICAL VELOCITY INDICATOR (VVI)

This indicator also uses a moving tape display like the AOA indicator. Vertical velocity information is presented on a scale in feet per minute. You are descending if the tape is in the black and climbing if the tape is in the white area. The WI scale only has a range of 6,000 ft. per minute, but you know if you are making a high-performance climb or verti- cal dive during a combat descent, so you don't really care about your WI.

The time you will need to refer to your WI is when you want to maintain level flight during cruise or maintain a constant descent rate on an approach. This is also a performance instrument because your WVI will indicate how your jet is per- forming in altitude based on the pitch and power you have set. If you want to maintain your altitude, set your pitch for a level aircraft attitude and then confirm a 0 feet per minute rate of change in your altitude, or OWI.

Navigation Instruments

The whole idea behind flight is to get you from point A to point B and back. In the case of the Fal- con, point B happens to be a target for you to destroy, but we'll get to that later. You've spent all this time learning how to use your instrumentation (control and performance instruments) so you can keep your jet on course to the target or on course to land.

HORIZONTAL SITUATION INDICATOR (HSI) DISPLAY

The HSI provides course, heading, bearing, and dis- tance information to some selected point of inter- est. This can be a “tactical air navigation” (TACAN) station, a steerpoint in the “inertial navigation sys- tem" (INS), or runway final approach course from an “instrument landing system" (ILS). (At least you got the mouth-full of acronyms out of the way in one sentence.) Here we will focus on the HSI.

The HS! display is oriented from a satellite's point of view, with your position being the center of the display. There are multiple indicators on the HSI for course and bearing information. Refer to fig- ure 8-7 as we describe each of the following ele- ments of the HSI.

* Compass card: Marked in degrees from 0 to 359 and labeled with N, S, E, and W, this black dial in the HSI window rotates around your air- craft as you move to keep your current head- ing at the top of the dial.

* Aircraft symbol: Displayed in the center, this symbol represents your position.

* Course arrow: This line consists of a yellow head and tail that extends across the compass card.The middle section of this line is the course deviation indicator. You rotate the arrow to line it up with your desired course by dialing in the appropriate course heading. Once set, the course arrow rotates with the compass card.

* Course deviation indicator: This is the center part of the course arrow. It moves from side to side to graphically depict how far, and in which direction, you have deviated off the course.

* Course set knob (CRS): This knob moves the course arrow to dial in the course heading you want. It can select course heading in 5-degree increments.

* Course selector window (CRS): This window displays the dialed-in course in degrees.

* Course deviation scale: These are white dots perpendicular to either side of the course arrow. Each one represents 2.5 degrees of devi- ation (with ILS; 5 degrees with TACAN) off course for any deflection of the course devia- tion indicator.

“SaxFALCON'40

* To/from indicator: When you select a TACAN guidance signal, a red arrow pointing toward the TACAN station is displayed in the center of the dial. It is in line with the course arrow. Based on the course heading you have set, the to/from arrow will either point in the same direction or opposite direction of the course arrow to indicate whether you are flying “to” the station or“from’ the station.

de

* Range indicator window (Ml): This displays distance in nautical miles (nm) to the selected steerpoint or TACAN station. The window will have a red flag across it when information is invalid.

* Heading marker: This is a reference marker for a desired heading (the green dot), displayed on the inside edge of the compass card's tick marks. Set this marker by dialing the heading set knob. Unless you change the heading of the marker, it maintains its position on the compass card. For reference only, it doesn’t interact with any navigation functions.

Course deviation indicator (CDI)

Range indicator window

cn € ie

WAY 4 HLS

Course deviation indicator (CDI)

Heading set knob

Bearing Pointer (head)

Fig. 8-7. HSI display

Upper lubber line

* Heading set knob (HDG): This rotates the heading marker to the desired location.

* Bearing pointer: This two-part pointer con- sists of a red head and tail displayed directly across from each other on the outer edge of the compass dial. The pointer always points toward the selected point of interest (such as a TACAN station or INS steerpoint) to show the bearing from where you are to this point.

* Upper lubber line: This is the fixed reference mark at the top of the compass card that indi- cates current heading.

Everything on the HSI refers to your selected point of interest or the navigation signal you are using for guidance. This is selected with the instru- ment mode switch (INSTR MODE). For the purpose of this discussion we will assume you are tracking a TACAN station on the airfield. The same principles would apply for any data source you use. Your range and bearing are indicated off of this point, and your course deviation represents your position from the set course to or from this point as well.

Bearing pointer (tail)

Course selector window

Aircraft symbol To/from indicator

Compass card

Course set knob

Heading Course marker = arrowFALCON’ 40

HSI POSITION INFORMATION

The bearing pointer rotates around the compass card to always point at the TACAN station. The head of the bearing pointer tells you the heading you must fly if you wanted to go directly to the station. To do this, turn toward the head of the bearing pointer until it sits at the top of the HSI. You will now track inbound to the point. The tail of the pointer tells you the heading that would take you away from the station. This is also described as your bearing from the station.

You can use this information to determine your Position from any navigation fix. Take a look at fig- ure 8-7. The direction of the bearing pointer as it points to the station is to the north. The tail of the pointer tells you that your position bears to the South of the station. Notice that your range from the station is 10 nm and that you are heading southbound at approximately 200 degrees.

HSI COURSE STEERING

Use the course arrow to get lined up on the final approach course for landing at an airfield. You can actually use this to track an inbound or outbound course to or from any navigation point, like cruising between steerpoints or following a specific attack heading during ingress into a target.

First make sure you dial in the appropriate course. Rotate the course set knob (CRS) until you see this heading in the course selector window. Notice how the course arrow rotates to line up with the heading of the selected course on the compass card. This gives you a visual representation of your Position and heading in relation to the course. In figure 8-7, the course deviation indicator (CDI) is off- set to the left, or east side of the HSI. This shows that you are offset to the west of the course. Your heading is almost parallel to the inbound course heading but in the opposite direction. In this case turn to the east, or toward the CDI, to intercept the course.

As you approach the course, you will see the CDI swing toward the center of the HSI. Whenever the CDI is lined up with the course arrow, you are on that course, regardless of your heading. This means you should turn and begin aligning your heading with the course heading as you approach the course, not on top of it.

ILS COURSE AND GLIDESLOPE GUIDANCE

In addition to course guidance for an approach, you can also follow a glide slope indicator to keep you on the proper glide path for landing. This is usually a 3-degree glide slope, shown in figure 8-8. The instrument landing system (ILS) at an airfield sends out a course and glide slope signal in the direction of the final approach course to the runway. The ILS receiver on the aircraft senses your position in rela- tion to the center of this course and glide slope, and represents this with the white bars on the ADI.

ILS course guidance

ILS glideslope guidance

Fig. 8-8. ILS course and glide slope signal

Course guidance from an ILS is actually called a “localizer approach,” but it functions the same way as the course guidance for a TACAN on the HSI. Since the ADI display is like looking forward, or down the approach, you can visualize banking your aircraft toward the course indicator (vertical line) to get yourself lined up.

The horizontal bar moves up and down to indi- cate the position of the glide slope in relation to your aircraft. In figure 8-8, the aircraft symbol is on the glide slope. If the bar is above the aircraft sym- bol, you are below the glide slope. Pull back on the stick to decrease your descent rate and you'll inter- cept the proper glide slope again. If the bar is below the aircraft symbol, then you are above the glide slope and need to increase your descent rate.

{de

FALCON'40

Normally, you intercept a glide slope from below as you approach an airfield. This means you will maintain your altitude with the glide slope indi- cator at the top of the display while you line up with the course indicator. As you approach the glide slope, the indicator will slide down the ADI toward the aircraft symbol.

When the aircraft gets to the glide slope, pull your power back slightly, extend your speed brakes, and set your pitch attitude for a 3-degree descent. By doing this you are setting your control instru- ments for the desired parameters. Now monitor your ILS indicators to assess your performance. Adjust your pitch, bank, and power as necessary to maintain the glide slope, course, and proper AOA.

MAGNETIC COMPASS

This compass on the right console is used for back- up purposes only. It requires no power from the air- craft to operate. The compass dial rotates to display your magnetic heading in the center of the win- dow.

CLOCK

Your aircraft computer maintains the current time and calculates “time over steerpoint” (TOS) for you. If you need to make other time calculations, you can check the current time of day on the right con- sole.

The Control and Performance Concept

Our description of Falcon instrumentation has so far been organized by function. In other words, we described not only how these instruments work but also how you fly with them. This is the control and performance concept of instrument flying— first set your controls and then adjust as you see how the aircraft performs.

INSTRUMENT CROSS-CHECK

To successfully fly off your instruments you must monitor several sources of data simultaneously. This requires constant cross-checking of your instru- ments to monitor performance. Even during a com- bat situation you'll realize all the performance factors you must cross-check to fight and survive, like your lift vector, airspeed, and altitude.

To cross-check effectively, you must know where to look and how often to look there. A per- fect example is the instrumentation on the center console. Notice how the ADI is centered with other instruments around it. This helps you focus on the primary control instrument first and then glance around to each of the performance instruments. The HUD does such a good job at simplifying your cross-check that you might seldom look at your center console instruments.

Regardless of whether you are in the middle of a fight or on final approach, you must learn this les- son of what to include in your cross-check and how to effectively absorb as much information as you can. Setting up a consistent habit pattern will help you do this.

COMM AND NAV CONTROLS

Your communication and navigation settings will be controlled either with auxiliary and backup pan- els (labeled AUX COMM and UHF BACKUP, respec- tively) or with your up front controls (UFC). The next section is dedicated to describing UFC features, so we'll begin our discussion of comm and nav opera- tion with a description of the control panels on your lower left console.

Radio Communications

The Falcon’s two radios are referred to as “COMM 1” and“COMM 2."The maximum range of the radio is about 300 nm.On each radio you can select any of the seven available radio channels or turn that radio off. At any given time, one of these radios will be designated the “active” radio. This is the radio you will both transmit and receive on.The “inactive” radio will only receive radio transmissions being broadcast on the selected channel. Radio channels can be selected either with the UHF BACKUP panel on the lower left console, or with your UFC (described later).

UHF BACKUP PANEL

Set the control knob on the lower left corner of this panel shown in figure 8-9 to determine how you will control radio operations. When you set NORM,FALCON’ 40

your radio and channel selection will be done with the UFC integrated control panel (ICP). When you set BACKUP, then you use this panel for operating your radios. Use the channel selector knob to switch through your available frequencies. The first number of the channel (1 or 2) displayed in the window indicates the active radio (COMM 1 or COMM 2).The second number indicates the actual channel.

Communication navigation IFF (CNI) switch

Tacan channel selector

Channel selector

Channel window

Tacan function switch

Tacan  Tacan COMM control knob band = band

(x) selector

Fig. 8-9. UHF BACKUP and AUX COMM panels

RADIO CHANNELS Here is the summary of available radio channels and who monitors these frequencies. * O—OFF: When no number is displayed on the backup panel the radio is off. The UFC will say OFF when you select this.

* 1—FLIGHT: Radio calls made to and from your flight members.

* 2—PACKAGE: On this channel you will hear any calls made to your package members.

* 3—FROM PACKAGE: This channel gives you PACKAGE calls as well as any calls made from package members to aircraft outside your package.

* 4—PROXIMITY: Listen to anything said to your team members within about 40 nm.

%* 5—GUARD: Any calls heard in PROXIMITY can be heard on GUARD plus any calls made from another team member to someone outside your team.

* 6—BROADCAST: Listen to any calls “broad- cast” to everyone in the world on this channel. This channel will be useful in multiplayer dog- fights (with players on different teams) but everyone must select channel 6 to hear each other.

* 7—TOWER: Communicate with air traffic con- trollers and the tower controller during your recovery back into the airfield. The TACAN sta- tion you have selected will determine which airfield controllers you are talking to on this frequency.

NOTE Any transmissions made - to your FLIGHT members will be heard on all radio channels. Calls made to and from AWACS and airborne tankers will also be heard on all frequencies.

Navigation Controls

Navigation guidance sources can be tactical air nav- igation (TACAN) station signals or onboard data in your system.

TACANS transmit signals that give bearing and distance information used by your instruments. This can be a ground station located on an airfield or another TACAN carried in a Tanker. The TACAN sig- nal can reach about 390 nm and must have line of sight to the station.

The other source of navigation guidance is data in your onboard systems. This could include pre- planned steerpoints, markpoints, or datalink points. The “fire control computer” (FCC) uses the coordi- nates for each of these points in combination with information about your position from the “inertial navigation system” (INS) to calculate its navigation guidance.

The INS is the primary F-16 navigation aid. It consists of a “ring laser gyro” (RLG) that aligns to

SasFALCON’40

your initial parking location at start up. When the jet moves from this steady state location, the stabilized gyro in the INS precesses, or moves, because of the movement of the aircraft. The INS continually uses this gyro precession to compute aircraft movement and position. Aiding (but not replacing) the INS is the global positioning system, or GPS. This system uses satellite information to calculate aircraft posi- tion and update the INS.

In most cases, the preplanned steerpoint data and INS is what you'll use to navigate. At the start of campaign and tactical engagement missions, you'll have en route steerpoints, target data, landing strips with associated TACAN channels, and refuel- ing steerpoints loaded into your system. These points are usually loaded in a logical order, from your takeoff point as steerpoint 1 through the rest of the mission.

In addition to this preplanned data, you can manually set additional TACAN channels for track- ing a ground station to navigate to a base or for tracking an airborne tanker to rendezvous for air refueling. Whether you use preplanned or manually selected data is determined on the auxiliary comm panel.

AUX COMM PANEL

Use figure 8-9 as a reference for the AUX COMM panel. The following are the navigation functions controlled by it.

* CNI switch: This switch (communications, navi- gation, and IFF) controls the source of your navigation data. Set to UFC, your system will navigate off preplanned information stored in your system.When you want to manually set in a TACAN channel for navigation (like a tanker's

re channel, for example) you must switch to BACKUP. Information is then received by the TACAN station corresponding to the channel manually set in the AUX COMM panel described here.

* Channel selector: Set manual TACAN channels by clicking each of the three numbers until you see the desired channel.

* Band switch: You actually have double the available channels because a TACAN can oper- ate on two different bands, designated “X” and “Y." Use the band switch to toggle between

\

these two options and select the appropriate

band. In this theater of operations, the X band normally is used for ground stations and the Y band is used for both ground stations and air

operations (such as tankers).

* TACAN function switch: This sets the TACAN to receive a signal from an airborne TACAN source or ground station. Select AA-TR (air-to- air/transmit-receive) for receiving a signal com- ing from a tanker. Set TR (transmit-receive) to receive a signal from an air base.

INSTRUMENT MODE (INSTR MODE) SELECTOR SWITCH

This controls the source of information used by the HSI (see figure 8-7.). You can display navigation guidance on your HSI from a TACAN signal or navi- gation point, and you can add ILS approach course guidance to this as well. Click on the knob to rotate it around to any of the following options.

* TCN: This selects TACAN signal guidance for your HSI.When your CNI knob is set to UFC, this signal comes from the preplanned TACAN channel selected by your UFC ICP.When you set BACKUP on the CNI knob, this signal will come from the TACAN station manually set on the AUX COMM Panel.

* TCN/ILS: This will use TACAN signal guidance (described above) as well as the associated ILS approach course and glide slope guidance sig- nal, displayed in your ADI and HUD.

* NAV: This selects the preplanned navigation point you have called up with the UFC to pro- vide navigational guidance on your HSI. This can be a steerpoint, markpoint, or datalink point, depending on what function you have called up (described in the following UFC sec- tion).

* NAV/ILS: This will use the navigation point as guidance and add ILS signal guidance when

you are navigating to a steerpoint for an air- field.

VALID COURSE GUIDANCE INDICATIONS

When you select ILS, you must be close enough to the airport (approximately 20 miles) and near the antenna pattern to receive ILS steering. If you doFALCON’ 40

not have a valid signal, the white bars in the ADI will deflect completely to the side in the direction of the course and glide slope, and a red flag will appear in the range window of the HSI. Use the TACAN first to get you lined up on course and then switch to the ILS when you are within about 20 miles from the field.

AIR-TO-AIR TACAN

When trying to find a tanker, make sure you set the CNI knob to BACKUP if you are dialing in a manual TACAN channel. Then set the TACAN transmit switch to AA-TR, dial in the appropriate channel, and select band “Y” for AA-TR (Also, remember that tanker TACAN channels are always in the Y channel group, rather than the X channel group). You can use the bearing and distance information from the HSI to merge with a tanker, but course information toa tanker is unusable since the tanker is continu- ally moving.

UP FRONT CONTROLS (UFC)

Another of the Falcon's features that helps integrate man and machine is the UFC. Eliminating the need to bury your head in the cockpit to perform a vari- ety of tasks, UFC provides an aircraft interface immediately in front of you. The “integrated control panel” (ICP) gives you easy keypad control over fre- quently used navigation (NAV) and communication (COM) functions. As part of the UFC, the “data entry display” (DED) window displays the information used by the UFC.

Integrated Cockpit Control Panel (ICP)

Directly under the HUD, the ICP console sits within easy reach of the pilot. It contains override buttons for selecting COM options, as well as the master modes for NAV, air-to-air attack (A-A), or air-to- ground (A-G) attack. Below these master mode but- tons you'll find the ICP keypad of priority functions. This gives you single-button access to view and edit seven specific navigation and communication sys- tems or functions of the aircraft.

NAV, A-A, A-G override buttons

1

Priority functions

INC/DEC buttons

Fig. 8-10. The ICP

ICP OPERATION

The override buttons change data or displays with a single press of the button.COM buttons give you quick access to change communication options. NAV, A-A, and A-G buttons let you instantly config- ure the FCC with specific navigation or attack mode profiles.

Priority functions include the T-ILS, ALOW, F- ACK, STPT, CRUS, LINK, and MARK buttons. Pressing one of these buttons enters this mode on the DED so you can view or change data. To exit the priority function, press that button again or enter another priority function.

Three other buttons on the ICP manage differ- ent data displayed on the DED, depending on what mode you have selected. These are the increment (INC), decrement (DEC), and ENTR (enter) buttons. The INC/DEC buttons, with arrows pointing to the right and left, usually toggle through a list of options or navigation points. INC selects the next option and DEC selects the previous. The ENTR but- ton is used to enter certain data within some of the priority modes.FALCON’40

Data Entry Display (DED)

COMM1= active radio

Channels selected

Current selected steer point

aay

cE et)

Fig. 8-11. The DED

The DED is a device for viewing information you select on the ICP. This display window is located just to the right of the ICP, where data can easily be seen with just a glance. Specific DED information will be covered under the operation of the ICP.

The default DED (figure 8-10) shows the current channels for COMM 1 and COMM 2, active radio, selected steerpoint, current time, and TACAN chan- nel information (preprogrammed into your flight computer per the mission briefing).

Override Modes

The following describes the function of the COMM, NAV, A-A, and A-G modes. Refer to figure 8-10 as a reminder for the location of each button.

COMM 1 AND COMM 2 * Use keypad (7) to make COMM 1 the active radio

* Use keypad (*] to make COMM 2 the active radio

* Use keypad (=)to toggle the active radio to the previous channel selection (DEC)

* Use keypad (+) to toggle the active radio to the next channel selection (INC)

Pressing a COM button sets the active radio for transmitting and receiving, indicated by a small square to the right of the COMM label on the DED. The other radio will be a receive-only radio fre- quency. The INC/DEC keys toggles the active radio through the communication channel options. (See the previous section on radio channels.)

Remember that when the AUX COMM panel on your left console set to NORM, you are working off the UFC and your INC/DEC keys will change chan- nels on the active radio. If your AUX COMM panel is set to BACKUP, then you must use the channel selector on the panel to change channels.

MASTER MODES * Use keypad (2) for NAV

keypad (0) for A-A * Use keypad (_} for A-G

The NAV override button will set the NAV master mode with the RWS (range while scan) radar dis- play on the left MFD and HSD on the right MFD. (Previously locked targets will be dropped.)

The A-A override key sets the air-to-air master mode, air-to-air radar in the left MFD (when the radar is displayed), and the SMS Stores page in the right MFD to display your gun and missile status.

The A-G master mode calls up the CCIP bomb- ing mode. If the radar is displayed in the left MFD, GM radar will be selected. The right MFD displays the SMS weapon page (WPN).

Priority Functions

ICP keypad buttons give you access to the follow- ing navigation, data communications, and system status displays. Sample DED pages are provided for each display type.FALCON’ 40

T-ILS

beat

HOME RUNWAY 14136

MCUs

Press the T-ILS button to access TACAN/ILS informa- tion on the DED. The first line of information indi- cates whether the ILS is on or off. The second line gives you the airfield type as HOME or ALTERNATE. Home is the landing steerpoint for your current flight plan. The alternates are backup landing sites that you planned or that AWACS recommends. You can have up to five alternate air bases. Cycle through the alternate landing sites with the INC/DEC arrows.

The air base and TACAN information is automat- ically loaded into your flight computer for each mis- sion with runway and TACAN channel information followed by TR for transmit/receive.

ALOW

Preinmesa8

ALOW shows the low altitude warning page on the DED. If you fly below the altitude set on your ALOW page, you will get an audible warning from the VMS (ALTITUDE, ALTITUDE").When this page is dis-

played, the INC/DEC arrows increase or decrease your ALOW setting.

F-ACK

oma iaes

Press F-ACK to access the fault acknowledgment display on the DED.With no system faults you will see the display like the one above.

If there are system faults, you will see a“FAULT” indication and abbreviation of the problem. The

description of the problem will include the (1) sub- system, (2) component, and (3) severity of the fault. Refer to Appendix F for a complete listing of poten- tial fault messages.

STPT

Sia me)

Loe LetCC MECN Tag

Sees

This calls up the steerpoint page to show mission and navigation information programmed into your FCC for the selected STPT. INC/DEC arrows toggle through each of the points loaded in your system.

The first line of data on the DED gives you your type of navigation point and planned mission type. Here are the possible turnpoint types (displayed first).

* STPT (steerpoint)

* IP (initial point) * TGT (target)

These are the possible mission types (displayed sec- ond). * ANTISHIP: engage enemy ships

* ASSEMBLE: fall into formation * CAP: combat air patrol

* CAS: close air support (engage enemy ground units at target)

* ESCORT: engage any enemy fighters along the flight plan —

* INTRCPT: engage specific enemy aircraft * IP: initial point

* LAND: land

* NAV: navigate to the next steerpoint

%* REARM: land and rearm

* RECON: photograph target location

* REFUEL: midair refueling

* S&D: search and destroy (engage any enemies of opportunity)

* SEAD: suppress enemy air defenses. * STRIKE: destroy enemy installations at targetee

BAR

FALCON’ 40

* SWEEP: engage all enemy aircraft detected * TAKEOFF: takeoff

If you are displaying an STPT (rather than an IP or TGT), the second line shows the TOS, or time over steerpoint. This is the clock time that you are expected to be over that steerpoint according to your flight plan. Next to the TOS is the planned alti- tude for that point from your mission profile.

The third line shows current estimated time of arrival (ETA) at your current airspeed. Next to ETA is your planned airspeed for that leg of the route. To get to the turnpoint on time, match your airspeed indication in the HUD with the airspeed caret on the scale.

CRUS

ORUISE STPT 4

Ce ae a

Be Ono ees CTE

This is your cruise management page. Here is where you find CRUISE information about getting to a specific navigation point.When this page is dis- played the INC/DEC arrows toggle through the list of all possible points currently in your system. Here are the types of navigation points you can select for cruise information.

* STPT (steerpoint)

* MARK (markpoint)

* DLINK (datalink)

* HOME (home air base)

* ALTERNATE (alternate landing site)

The second line of data on the CRUS page shows the optimum Mach at your current altitude and also the optimum altitude for the most fuel- efficient profile to get to the point. The third data line shows the FOS, or fuel remaining, (in pounds) you will have over the station by flying at your cur- rent altitude and airspeed. Wind direction and speed are the last data displayed on the CRUS

page.

LINK

Your datalink is a secure radio channel that allows AWACS or FAC (Forward Air Controller) to send you targeting info. In Falcon 4.0, data is automatically loaded into your flight computer. On a CAS (Close Air Support) mission, radio to AWACS by pressing (and selecting "Check in." AWACS will respond with target info, which will be displayed as a float- ing steerpoint (small circle on your HSD). The LINK DED display says “LINK” with “OPERATIONAL” under- neath.

MARK

res

When you need to mark a certain location as a tem- porary steerpoint, call up the MARK page. You can MARK your present position as a navigation point. When you first call up the MARK page with no points selected, you will see a display like the one in figure 8-11g.Once you mark a point, it gets saved in your system. Use the INC/DEC arrows to toggle through all of your saved markpoints to select the one you want displayed. You can now use this as a temporary steerpoint to navigate to targets of opportunity.

To store your current location as a markpoint, call up the MARK page and press the ENTR button. A display like figure 8-12 will show the coordinates of that point and the number designation of that markpoint. You can save up to 10.You can also press the ENTR button while the GM radar is on to store the GM radar cursor position

When a markpoint is selected in the DED, you can navigate to it. Figure 8-12 shows the markpoint displayed on the horizontal situation display (HSD) and a steering cue to this point in the HUD.FALCON’ 40

Steering cue Markpoint tothe Range to coordinates markpoint —_markpoint saved

Markpoint displayed on HSD

Fig. 8-12. MARK point entered with point on the HSD and steering in the HUDa

FALCON’40

HEADS-UP DISPLAY (HUD)

When you've spent any amount of time in a com- bat fighter, you'll understand the value of the HUD— it just goes without saying. A whole book could be written on the HUD itself, but since you're a no-nonsense fighter pilot, we'll just stick to the facts so you can get on your way to the target. This section covers the basic symbology of the HUD common to all modes. Symbology for specific weapons will be covered in appropriate chapters later.

General HUD Symbology

The HUD is a single source display for much of the information found in your flight instruments. You can have all of this information displayed, or you can remove some of this symbology when it’s not needed to de-clutter your HUD. Here is an overview of the basic symbology found in the HUD.

BORESIGHT CROSS (“GUN CROSS”)

The cross, positioned at the top of the HUD, repre- sents the fuselage reference line or where the nose of the aircraft is pointing. This symbol is displayed in every HUD mode.

FLIGHT PATH MARKER (FPM)

The FPM indicates the actual direction of flight for your aircraft. This is not always the exact direction your nose is pointing; it changes based on your angle of attack. You can use the FPM in relation to the horizon and pitch scales to set a desired climb or dive angle. The flight path marker can be turned on or off with the FPM switch on the HUD control panel.

PITCH LADDER

The pitch ladder consists of a ladder of lines parallel to the horizon. The lines rotate to stay oriented level with the horizon as the aircraft rolls. The solid line across the center, or 0-degree, line designates the horizon. Each line above and below the horizon line represents 5 degrees of climb or dive. The pitch lad- der lines have tick marks on each end that point toward the horizon line. Positive pitch angles have

solid bars and negative pitch angles have dashed bars.

In Easy and Simplified Avionics modes, you will see only the horizon line when your nose is within 20 degrees of the horizon. The pitch ladder comes on by default and also switches on automatically when the landing gear is down. You may manually toggle pitch ladder on or off by pressing (H) or using the FPM switch on the HUD control panel.

AIRSPEED

Airspeed indications appear on the left side of the HUD. Airspeed can be displayed as either a moving scale or a digital readout. Switch between the digi- tal readout and the scale by pressing or by using the scales switch on the HUD control panel.

The scale consists of a moving, calibrated “tape.” Airspeed for the scale is displayed on the left side by a numeral for every 50 knots (multiplied by 10). Tick marks between these indicate 10-knot incre- ments. A tick mark to the right of the scale indicates your present airspeed. The digital readout option displays a number inside a rectangle positioned on the left side of the HUD where the scale is normally displayed.

The scale in the HUD always displays airspeed in nautical miles per hour. Use the HUD control panel to set the scale for calibrated airspeed (CAS), true airspeed (TAS), or ground speed (GND), all described previously under “Airspeed/Mach Indica- tor.”A letter above the airspeed tick mark on the right side of the scale tells which measurement of airspeed is being displayed—"C” for CAS,"T" for TAS, or”G" for GND.

MACH INDICATOR

In addition to nm per hour, the Falcon’s computer also displays your indicated speed in Mach. You can find this number at the bottom of the airspeed scale, just above your maximum G pulled readout.

THROTTLE SETTING

In the bottom-left corner is a digital indication of your rpm setting. This can be a helpful reference for setting your power without having to look down in the cockpit for the rpm gauge.FALCON’ 40

Airspeed measurement (C,T, or G) over airspeed indicator Flight Tadpole TOS = Airspeed Boresight Pitch path steering Steerpoint Horizon Altitude caret scale Current Gs cross ladder marker symbol diamond line scale I 1 1

SELL bd pC iba)

Mach Max Gs Throttle Mode Heading NM to steerpoint ETA pulled setting selected scale numberselected displayed

Fig. 8-13. HUD display symbology

ALTITUDE foot. The altitude tape is marked in increments of This is displayed on the right side of the HUD as 100 ft. until you descend below 1,200 feet. The tick either a digital readout or a moving “tape” scale, mark on the left side of the scale indicates your alti- similar to the airspeed scale. The digital indicator tude. You have three options for viewing altitude gives the altitude inside a rectangle accurate to the information, depending on how you set the alti-

tude switch on the HUD control panel.de

FALCON’ 40

When set to BAR (for barometric), the altitude scale measures your mean altitude above sea level” (MSL).The scale is measured in 100-foot tick marks until you descend to low altitude, where the scale changes to show 20-foot tick marks.

The RADAR setting displays altitude above ground level (AGL) using your radar altimeter. The “R" above the airspeed indicator mark means RADAR is selected. Just like BAR, the scale changes as you descend through 1,200 ft. or climb through 1,500 ft. Remember the difference—MSL is above sea level, AGL is above ground.

When set to AUTO, the scale uses the baromet- ric altitude until you fly above 1,500 ft. AGL while climbing or below 1,200 ft. when descending. At this point, the scale automatically switches to RADAR. Now the low-altitude display is in the form of a bracket on the left of the altitude scale (see fig- ure 8-14). The upper end of the bracket moves up or down to mark your altitude against the scale. In addition, you will see a sideways “T” set on the scale to indicate the current setting of your ALOW. If you descend below this level you will see an“R” appear above the ALOW tick mark.

HEADING

The heading scale is displayed at the bottom of the HUD for navigation and air-to-air weapons modes and at the top of the HUD for air-to-ground weapons modes and ILS mode. Headings are dis- played in degrees with the heading tape calibrated in 5-degree increments, and your current heading appears in the box in the center of the scale. You can remove the heading scale from the HUD by using the scales switch on the HUD control panel,

or by toggling (CTAL)(H).

G FORCE INDICATIONS

The number in the upper-left corner of the HUD indicates the G forces you are experiencing at any given moment. In the lower-left part of the HUD you will find a number indicating the highest G force your F-16 has experienced on the current mis- sion.

Navigation

There are several indications in your HUD symbol- ogy to help you navigate along your route of flight and get to the target on time.

STEERPOINT SYMBOL

When you are in the NAV mode and the current steerpoint is within the field of view (FOV) of your HUD, a diamond appears over the ground at the position of the point. You can center your flight path marker over the steerpoint diamond to fly directly to the steerpoint. If the steerpoint is outside the FOV of the HUD, the diamond does not appear. In this case, use the “tadpole” to turn toward your steerpoint.

TADPOLE

The tadpole provides basic steering information to the selected steerpoint. It is always present while in the NAV mode. This symbol comprises a small circle with a tail on it; the tail points in the direction of the current steerpoint. To turn toward your steerpoint, turn in the direction of the tadpole's tail until the tadpole is lined up with your FPM and the tail is pointing straight up.

STEERING MARKER

The bold tick mark that appears above the heading tape provides another indication of the heading you must fly to get to the current steerpoint. If the heading you need to fly is outside the range of the viewable heading tape, the steering marker will appear all the way to the side that will be the short- est direction toward the steerpoint.When you align the heading indicator (the smaller tick mark on the heading scale) with the steering marker, you'll be on a direct path to the current steerpoint.

STEERPOINT TIMING AND DISTANCE

In the lower-right corner of the HUD are two lines of digital information about distance and timing to your selected steerpoint. The top line can display estimated time en route (ETE), time to go (TTG), or estimated time of arrival (ETA). When in NAV mode, use ("} to toggle between ETE,TTG, and ETA. The second line of data shows your distance in nautical miles to the selected steerpoint.FALCON’ 40

ETE displays the time it will take to get to the next point at your current speed in minutes and seconds, like this: MM:SS.TTG mode displays a “<MM:SS>" readout. This tells you how much time is left until your preplanned time over steerpoint (TOS), or in other words, the TOS minus your current time. If TG is zero and you are not there yet, you're late for your steerpoint. Selecting ETA gives you an hour/minute/second format like this: <HH:MM:SS>.

VELOCITY CORRECTION CUE

The velocity correction cue, otherwise known as the TOS caret, is a sideways “V" that appears on the air- speed scale. It points to the airspeed you must fly to reach the steerpoint at the designated time. In fig- ure 8-13, for example, you would need to fly slower (390 knots) to get to steerpoint 5 on time.

Approach Symbology

Additional HUD symbology can be used specifically for your approach to landing. Refer to figure 8-14 for the following discussion.

VERTICAL VELOCITY INDICATOR (VVI) SCALE

If you want to view your WI during an approach, you can display this scale just to the left of the alti- tude scale in the HUD. It functions the same as the WI on the center console. Toggle this on with

(H) or with the scales switch on the HUD con- trol panel.

ANGLE OF ATTACK (AOA) BRACKET

With your gear down, the AOA bracket appears just to the left of the FPM, shown in figure 8-14. This symbol slides up and down in relation to the FPM to indicate your current AOA. If the top of the bracket lines up with the FPM, you are flying an 11- degree AOA approach (the lower yellow indexer arrow should be illuminated. When the center of the bracket lines up with the FPM, you are at 13- degree AOA and should see a green circle. If you are on the proper glide path and the FPM lines up with the bottom of the bracket, you are too slow, with 15 degrees of AOA and a red light in the indexer.

INSTRUMENT LANDING SYSTEM (ILS) DISPLAY

You can get the same ILS course and glide slope guidance in the HUD as you can from the ADI. Use the FPM in the HUD to follow the HUD ILS cue in the same way you would use the aircraft symbol in the ADI to follow the ILS steering cues.

HUD Control Panel

Here is an overview of the HUD display options found on this control panel.

SCALES SWITCH

to toggle HUD scales. This switch con- trols the selection of HUD scales to be displayed. The W (vertical velocity) position turns on the WI scale, along with the airspeed, altitude, and heading scales. The VAH position turns on just the velocity (airspeed), altitude, and heading scales (without the W)1).The OFF position replaces the heading, veloc- ity, and altitude scales with the digital readouts.

FLIGHT PATH MARKER SWITCH

Use (H) to toggle FPM display options. This switch selects display modes for the FPM and the pitch ladder.The ATT position selects both the pitch lad- der and the FPM. The FPM position displays only the flight path marker. The OFF position removes both the Pitch Ladder and the FPM.

DED DATA SWITCH

Use (D) to toggle the DED informa- tion on the HUD Only view.When you use the HUD Only view, the DED is not visible as you fly. This switch toggles the display of your DED information in the lower part of the HUD. In other viewing options, the DED and HUD are both visible, so this switch isn’t necessary.

VELOCITY SWITCH

This three-position switch adjusts the airspeed scale on the HUD to indicate CAS, TAS, or GS. (remember, GS is marked “GND” on the HUD control panel switch). Check the letter designation above the airspeed indicator tick mark to confirm which readout is currently selected (C,T, or G).

“SsFALCON’ 4.0 EZR ree yo

ra Daas ins ect REED eee eee

ce er

ILS submode AOA bracket Flight path marker selected in NAV and ILS guidance lined up

Fig. 8-14. Approach symbology in the HUD

ALTITUDE SWITCH

Use GHIF(CTRL)@)(R) to toggle through altitude scale options, BARO, RADAR, and AUTO, described previously.

BRIGHTNESS CONTROL SWITCH

This switch sets the intensity of the HUD display for either day flying or night flying. DAY turns on full brightness, NIGHT sets half brightness, and AUTO automatically maintains an appropriate brightness level.

HUD COLOR CONTROL

Use to toggle HUD color options. This is not a control panel switch, but a sim option in Falcon 4.0.

Fig. 8-15. HUD control panelFALCON’ 40

If you will be flying your mission against one pre- dominant background (bright sky in air-to-air or dark terrain during low-level navigation), you can optimize the color to see the symbology better. Usually, the F-16 default of light green works fine.

HUD/VMS Integration

Many situations that result in VMS warnings will also be indicated in the HUD symbology, such as low altitude and low fuel situations.

ALTITUDE LOW

When your altitude drops below the ALOW setting, the letters “AL” and your altitude in feet appear underneath the altitude tape. Remember the AL display always shows altitude as AGL, which is important for low-altitude flying. If you dive and get close to crashing into the ground, you will see a large, flashing “X” (“break-X”) on your MFDs and HUD and hear “ALTITUDE, ALTITUDE” from your VMS.

BREAK-X

This large flashing “X" appears across the HUD when you are in imminent danger of collision. If you have locked up an aircraft on radar and are closing for a canopy-to-canopy pass, the break-X probably refers to your potential for an air-to-air collision. Make a hard break to avoid the other plane. If you are in danger of crashing into the ground, you'll see the break-X and hear the VMS say,"PULL UP, PULL UP.” Do what it says.

LOW FUEL

When your fuel quantity reaches 1,400 Ibs., the cen- ter of the HUD will display a flashing FUEL and VMS will say“BINGO" to warn you that you are low on gas. A FUEL readout will also appear in the lower left corner of the HUD. Press the master caution light (or to turn off the flashing FUEL mes- sage and the VMS warning. The other FUEL mes- sage will remain. From this point, every time you get down to half the fuel amount, FUEL will again flash in the center of your HUD and VMS will say “BINGO.”

Flight Control Computer (FCC) Information Displays

The FCC controls attack and navigation modes, weapon symbology, radar information, and weapons status. Much of this information can be found in the HUD. Specific attack symbology will be covered with the appropriate weapon system. For now, here is some general information that will always be displayed.

FCC MODE DISPLAY

In the lower-left corner you will find a Mode mnemonic indicating the FCC mode in which you are operating. Here is the list of possible modes you might see.

* NAV (Basic Navigation)

* ILS (Instrument Landing System)

* SRM (short-range air-to-air missile)

* MRM (medium-range air-to-air missile)

* MSL (missile override mode)

* DGFT (dogfight)

* EEGS (enhanced envelope gunsight)

* LCOS (lead computing optical sight )

* SNAP (snap shoot)

* STRF (ground strafe)

* CCRP (continuously computed release point) * CCIP (continuously computed impact point) * DTOS (dive toss)

* LGB (laser-guided bombs)

* RCKT (rockets)

* BSGT (boresight electro-optical weapon deliv- ery submode)

* SLAVE (slaved weapons delivery submode) * HTS (HARM targeting system)

STATUS MNEMONIC

Weapon status is indicated in the lower-left corner of the HUD. Usually you will see ARM displayed, indicating your weapons are armed and ready. In NAV mode you will also see ILS displayed here if you toggle this submode on.

a5ae

FALCON’40

SENSOR OF INTEREST (SOI)

This is the term for which sensor controls your sym- bology.This could be the HUD, a radar page, or a weapon page. The HUD and the MFDs interact in various ways, and sometimes it may be confusing which display is the sensor of interest. If your cursor controls are moving HUD symbology such as a tar- get designator box, you will see “SOI” displayed in the top left corner of the HUD. The MFD will display “NOT SOI.” After you designate a target, your cur- sors are usually controlling weapon symbology in the MFD.The SO! label then disappears from the HUD because the MFD is now the sensor of inter- est.

MULTIFUNCTION DISPLAYS (MFDs)

The two CRT-based displays that sit in the front of the cockpit let the pilot see and manage weapons system functions, weapons stores information, radar information and electro-optical (EO) weapons displays. These multifunction displays (MFDs) can also display navigation information and duplicate the HUD and RWR displays. Together with your HUD and RWR, everything you need to perform your mission is found here.

Operation of the MFDs and some of the sys- tems related to navigation, aircraft avionics, and general stores management will be covered here to give you a basic understanding of the MFDs. Spe- cific weapons systems will be covered later in their appropriate chapters.

Available Displays

The Falcon cockpit obviously has only two MFDs. In the 2-D Front Cockpit view, they are fully functional and allow hands-on interaction via the mouse. All other views require keystrokes to operate the vari- ous functions available. Since HUD Only view does not give any view inside the cockpit, you have the option of displaying four different MFD selections on your screen in this view. This can help maintain your SA with RWR views and other information you would normally be able to see in the cockpit.

Here is the list of available pages you can dis- play on the MFDs.

* MENU (the main menu of available MFD dis- play pages) * HSD (horizontal situation awareness display)

* FCR (fire control radar pages, either air-to-air or air-to-ground)

* SMS (the stores management system, includ- ing the various weapons system displays)

%* RWR (a redundant display of the radar warning receiver scope)

* HUD (a redundant display of your HUD) * OFF (displayed when the MFD is off)

15 14 13 12 OSB-11

Fig. 8-16. MFD main menu for available display pages with OSB labels

Some of these main system pages also have submode pages.When displaying the FCR page, for example, you could have any of the radar's air-to-air modes or air-to-ground modes displayed. With the SMS page called up, you could see any of the spe- cific weapons pages (WPN), stores Inventory page (INV), or jettison page. Each of these will be described later in this chapter and in Part 3: Falcon Avionics.

You can bring up some MFD pages automati- cally when you use the master mode functions in your UFC. Selecting A-A override mode, for exam- ple, gives you an air-to-air FCR page and SMS Stores page in your MFDs.FALCON’ 40

MFD Operation

Use the “option select buttons,” (OSBs) to control MED functions. Located around the edges of the MFDs, these 20 buttons manage many of the func- tions of each system. Generally, the OSBs along the bottom select which system you display, OSBs along the top control submodes of these systems, and OSBs along the sides select options unique to each mode.

Every OSB is referred to by a number, starting at the top left corner of each MFD and moving clock- wise in sequence from 1 through 20, shown in fig- ure 8-16. If an OSB performs a function there will be a“mnemonic" or abbreviated word next to the OSB describing what that OSB does. Not all OSBs with mnemonics next to them actually perform a func- tion.

* Use (TJand (J) to toggle through available MFD pages on the left and right displays.

* Use ({Jand (J)to toggle upper-left and upper- right MFD viewing options when using HUD Only view.

COMMON OSB FUNCTIONS

Several MFD functions are common to most of the page displays. One of these functions is the SWAP command. Press the OSB on the bottom of the MFD underSWAP” and you will switch the left and right MFD pages with each other.

If your situation display or radar is called up as an MFD page, you have the ability to change the range scale of the display. Up and down arrows located on the top left side of the display next to OSB 19 and 20.Pressing the appropriate OSB increases or decreases the range presentation of the display.

Main Menu Page

You can tell which page is currently displayed on the MFD by the mnemonic highlighted at the bot- tom, usually above OSB 14. Pressing this OSB will take you to the MFD main menu, shown in figure 8- 16.At this menu page you can call up any of the other page options by pressing the OSB next to the appropriate system.

HSD Page

Your horizontal situation display, or HSD page, pro- vides a graphic overview of the battlefield around you. This presentation can help you to increase your SA because you can track your position on the route, refer to information off a position from the bullseye, or remind yourself about the radar’s search volume.

HSD SYMBOLOGY

Here is a summary of symbology used on the HSD, shown in figure 8-17.

* Ownship indicator: The airplane stick figure two-thirds of the way down the center of the HSD indicates your position. It remains in the same position on the display and the rest of the world moves around your relative position as you maneuver.

* Range scale: In the upper-left of the MFD you will find the nm scale in nautical miles of the relative size of the area you are viewing. Your options are 15, 30,60, or 120 nm. Increase or decrease the size of the “picture” view to see as much information as you need or to focus on the area immediately around you.

* Range rings: The three rings around your ownship indicator provide a reference for judg- ing your distance from other objects on the display. Each ring represents one-third of the range scale setting. This means a range scale of 60 nm will give you 20 nm rings.

* Navigation route: The preplanned steerpoints in your system are displayed as small circles. Straight lines connect these points to repre- sent your route of flight. Because the top of the MFD represents your heading, use this to navi- gate by turning to put the steerpoint symbol directly in front of your ownship indicator. The currently selected steerpoint in the DED will be blinking.

* A-Aand A-G ghost cursors: These cursors overlay the position of either the air-to-air or air-to-ground cursors on the HSD screen, show- ing you where these cursors are aimed in rela- tion to your current position and route of flight. The ghost cursors look like their radar counterparts. Remember you are not moving

a5FALCON’ 40

the cursors on the HSD since the radar is the SOI for controlling the cursors. Figure 8-17a

gives an example of A-A radar cursors mirrored on the HSD page.

* Sensor volume indicator: The FCC displays a pie-shaped area on your HSD to indicate the actual radar scan volume.

Ee

* Line figures: Some basic information about the “forward edge of the battle area” (FEBA) could be displayed with a line on the HSD depending on your mission. Keep in mind that this may only be as current as the mission data you had when walking out the door from the brief—by the time you get there, the battle- field could have moved substantially.

* Bullseye symbol: This small circle is positioned on the HSD at the location of Bullseye.

* Bullseye position: In the lower-left is a circle with an arrow pointing toward the bull’s-eye relative to your nose. The number inside the circle is your range to the bullseye and the number below the circle is your bearing from the bull’s-eye.

* Radar cursor position off bullseye: Above the bullseye position circle is a digital readout of the current position of your radar cursors off of the Bullseye. The first number gives the degrees of bearing from bullseye and the sec- ond number, the range. In the example in fig- ure 8-17b you see the cursors position 18 nm at a 100-degree bearing from the bullseye.

MFD OSB FUNCTIONS ON THE HSD PAGE

The following OSB Functions are available on the MFD from the HSD page. * OSB-12 (SMS): Switches you to the SMS main

page

* OSB-14 (HSD highlighted): Returns to the MFD main menu page

* OSB-15 (SWAP): Swaps the left and right MFD displays

* OSB-19 (up arrow): Increases the HSD range scale ((F12) also)

* OSB-20 (down arrow). Decreases the HSD range scale (Fit Jalso)

Bar Azimuth RWS — Range _——Radar. scan scan mode —scale_—_ cursors

Cursor Aircraft FCRpage Steerpoint Horizon position position displayed symbol _—_ reference offbullseye off bullseye

a

|

Range Ghost Bullseye © Range Sensor volume scale cursor symbol rings _ indicator

Cursor Position HSDpage Navigation Ownship position off bullseye route _ indicator off bullseye

Fig. 8-17. HSD page with corresponding A-A radar informationFALCON’ 40

FCR Page

Remember that your fire control radar (FCR) does more than just present an air-to-air radar picture. With the Easy Avionics option in Game Setup, you have two radar modes: air-to-air and air-to-ground. The Simplified avionics setting adds an air combat mode (ACM) to the available radar modes. With the Realistic Avionics option you have multiple radar modes,

You know that you're looking at the FCR page when “FCR" is highlighted at the bottom of the MFD, shown in figure 8-17.The radar mode cur- rently operating can be determined by the mnemonic at the top of the MFD. Track while scan (TWS), range while search (RWS), velocity search (VS), air combat maneuvering (ACM), ground map (GM), ground moving target (GMT) and sea mode (SEA) are all possible radar modes you can use in the Falcon. Refer to Chapter 10: Falcon Radar for information on the radar MFDs.

The following OSB functions are available on the MFD from the FCR page.

* OSB-2 (RWS): Takes you to the radar menu to select other modes.

* OSB-12 (SMS): Takes you to the SMS main page.

* OSB-14 (HSD highlighted): Returns to the MFD main menu page.

* OSB-15 (SWAP): Swaps the left and right MFD displays.

* OSB-19 (up arrow): Increases the FCR range scale. ((F4 Jalso)

* OSB-20 (down arrow): Decreases the FCR range scale. ((F3 Jalso)

SMS Page

The stores management system (SMS) controls all stores management and weapons delivery. At the SMS page on the MFD you can check your inven- tory, select among the available weapons sub-

modes tied to the weapons loaded on your aircraft,

and use the jettison stores submode when neces- sary.

SMS MAIN CONTROL PAGE

From this page, shown in figure 8-18, you access the Inventory page and all available SMS Weapons pages. The following OSB functions can be available from this page depending on what stores you have loaded.

=

er

See ialftaftay tal its

Fig. 8-18. SMS main control page

* OSB-6 (AAM): Air-to-air missile page

* OSB-7 (AGM): Air-to-ground missile page

* OSB-8 (A-G): Air-to-ground bomb page

* OSB-9 (GUN): Gun page

* OSB-13 (FCR): Switches to the MFD FCR page

* OSB-14 (SMS): Returns to the MFD main menu rms page

* OSB-15 (SWAP): Swaps the left and right MFDs

* OSB-20 (INV): Brings up the SMS Inventory page

SMS WEAPONS PAGES

Selecting any of the weapons options (OSBs 6-9) will take you to the available SMS weapon page for that particular type of weapon. Press OSB 8, for example, to bring up the A-G weapon page for the weapon you have loaded on the jet. In figure 8-19, you have cluster bomb units (CBU-52) loaded, soFALCON’ 40

this is the WPN page you would see. WPN high- lighted over OSB 14 tells you this is a submode of the SMS. Press OSB 14 and you will return to the Main SMS control page (figure 8-18).

se

Bomb AG sms fuzing bombing Delivery inventory + Weapon submode _ page type

options mode

POTS

#bombs todrop

Release option

Selective Jettison displayed page

Fig. 8-19. SMS WPN page

Some general MFD functions are available on a SMS weapon pages. You can access the FCR page with OSB-13 or by toggling through MFD pages by pressing (T) and (J). Enter the Selective Jettison page by pressing OSB-11, described below. You can also use the SWAP function with OSB-15.

For each Weapon page, a mnemonic under OSB-1 indicates the type of SMS Weapon page cur- rently displayed, such as AAM, A-G, and GUN. The mnemonic next to OSB-6 tells you what weapon is currently selected. You can toggle through any available weapons by pressing OSB-6. You can also toggle through each station of A-G weapons with or through A-A weapons with ENTER).

The station of the selected weapon is displayed in the lower portion of the SMS WPN MFD.You will see a highlighted number corresponding to the air-

craft station on the left side for stations 1-4, and the right side for stations 6-9. Usually you find specific weapon submode or fusing information displayed along the left side of the MFD. Each weapon also has its own specific delivery symbology displayed in the MFD and HUD. Details for each weapon will be covered in greater depth in the applicable Avionics chapters of Part 3.

SMS INVENTORY PAGE

Fortunately, in Falcon 4.0 all your weapons and racks get loaded into the SMS when you get into your aircraft. Refer to the SMS Inventory page to see at a glance everything that is loaded onto your F- 16.To call this up from the SMS main control page, press OSB-20; from a WPN page, use OSB 4.

The SMS inventory is presented schematically like the aircraft (see figure 8-20). The nine stations of the jet are laid out like an inverted V shape. Station 1, the left wing tip, is at the lower- left side of the V. Station 5 is the centerline station at the top of the V. Station 9, the right wing tip, is the lower-right point on the V. If you have selected a weapon from a SMS weapon page, you will see a box around the station with that weapon.

Each station will list the number of weapons that are currently available, and the racks these weapons were loaded on. If nothing is loaded on a station, dashed lines are displayed. As you expend weapons, the quantity number counts down to 0.

Stations 1 and 9 support only air-to-air missiles. Stations 2 and 8 support only two weapons or racks. Stations 3, 4,6,and 7 support up to three weapons or racks. Station 5 will normally hold the ALQ-131 ECM pod (AL131).

In the upper-left corner of the Inventory page, the number of gun rounds (x10) is displayed next to the word "GUN." For example, a full load of 20mm rounds would read “51GUN" for 510 rounds. Beneath this display is the type of 20mm rounds loaded, which is normally “PGU28.”

The targeting pod and HARM targeting system (HTS) pod are two stores not shown on the Inven- tory page because they are automatically loaded when a specific weapon requires this system. The targeting pod produces a laser spot on the target for laser-guided bombs to track on. The HTS pod receives radar signals from enemy radar sites for the AGM-88 high-speed anti-radiation missileFALCON’ 40

(HARM) to guide on. These are both systems you can assume will be loaded if you carry these weapons.

Gun

STA-2 status STA-3  STA-4 STA-S STA-6 STA-7

Station-1 SMS inventory maneuvering selective

Aircraft Goto STA-9 STA-8

page limits displayed

jettison

Fig. 8-20. SMS Inventory page

AIRCRAFT MANEUVERING LIMITATIONS The SMS Inventory page is also where you find the maneuvering category of your aircraft.When you have a lot of heavy weapons loaded, the aircraft computer will limit you to CAT Ill maneuvering lim- its. This means the FCC may limit your max G avail- able, which you can see in figure 8-20.CAT | means your configuration is not heavy enough to limiting

* your G capability, so you would have the 9 G max limit available during your maneuvers.

SELECTIVE JETTISON (S-J)

This SMS function allows you to selectively jettison some of your weapons instead of dumping every- thing with an emergency jettison. If you are hauling bombs to the target in a CAT Ill aircraft and realize that you'll soon be engaged with multiple bandits, you might want to dump your bombs to get back

to a more maneuverable configuration if it means saving your life.

Call up the S-J page with OSB-11 from most SMS pages (and an SMS WPN page). You will see a display similar to the SMS Inventory page. This time, press the OSBs next to the stations you want to jet- tison. As you do this, a box will highlight the load on that station.When you have the S-J page called up and you hit the pickle button, whatever stations were selected will be jettisoned.

Selective jettison submode active

pa Parte Tar)

SMS page displayed

Selected stations to jettison

Fig. 8-21. SMS Selective Jettison page

HUD Page

If you need to spend an extended amount of time looking down inside the cockpit, you can call up a picture of the HUD on one of your MFDs. Toggle through MFD pages with (T)and (])or press the HUD option on the MFD main menu page.

RWR Page

When you are in HUD Only view, putting the RWR display up on the MFD could save your life. SelecteS

FALCON’ 40

this page the same way you do with other MFD pages.

AIRCRAFT CONTROLS

You can control most of these functions through both the interactive cockpit and keyboard com- mands. Some controls, like the throttle and wheel brakes, will only operate through keyboard com- mands unless you can program them into stick, throttle, or rudder settings just like the real F-16. This section groups aircraft controls by system, but generally covers them in order from the left side of the cockpit around to the right.

Engine

Power settings are obviously an important part of aircraft instrumentation. Since you fly a single- engine aircraft, you might also want to monitor your engine instruments to make sure you can get home. As you move the throttle around, the power

changes are reflected in the engine instruments, most of which are situated on the right console.

THROTTLE

In the absence of an analog throttle for gameplay, use (=)and (=)to control your power. Push the power up to increase thrust by repeatedly pressing (=). Pull it back to decrease thrust by pressing (=). Select full afterburner (AB) with (+) and yank the throttle back to idle with GHIFT)(-).

OIL PRESSURE INDICATOR

After you lose oil pressure it's only a matter of time before the engine seizes and your fighter becomes a glider. The oil pressure range on the indicator reads 0-100 pounds per square inch (psi) of pres- sure. If your oil pressure drops below 15 psi, you've probably got a problem and will soon see the “HYD/OIL" warning light illuminate.

NOZZLE POSITION INDICATOR

The nozzle on the back of the engine plays a signifi- cant role in engine performance. The nozzle posi- tion gauge gives you an indication of the percent the nozzle is open. At IDLE power you'll see the noz- zle open up. Push up the power and the nozzle closes down, creating more thrust from the engine

exhaust. Throw it into AB and the nozzle must open up to allow for the extra exhaust that will come bil- lowing out the back end.

RPM INDICATOR

This indicates how fast your engine is turning in revolutions per minute (rpm).The gauge actually gives you a percentage for rpm, reading 0-100 per- cent. Because of the way the gauge is matched to the engine, you might actually see readings above 100 percent. The engine starts from 0 percent rpm, so an IDLE rpm setting will actually be around 70 percent rpm. During normal fight operations, rpm is seldom used as a control instrument. But if you do have engine problems, one of the first indications of engine failure might be your rpm rolling down below IDLE rpm.

Flight Controls

How your stick operates the control surfaces of the jet is covered in Chapter 6: Aerodynamics Forces. This leaves only a couple of additional control func- tions in the cockpit.

MANUAL PITCH OVERRIDE (MPO) SWITCH

Because of the nature of the flight control limiter in the Falcon (described in Chapter 6) you can find yourself in a deep stall situation where the move- ment of the flight control surfaces is not great enough to regain control authority of the aircraft. The MPO switch overrides the flight control limiter to allow extra movement from the horizontal stabi- lizers. This should give you enough control author- ity to force the aircraft out of its stalled condition. You can toggle this switch on and off in the cockpit or with ().The extra flight control movement only occurs with the AOA out of normal limits, or in other words, in a deep stall.

SPEEDBRAKES

This is a control function that resides strictly on the throttle in the F-16.(B) toggles the speedbrakes between fully open and fully closed. GHIFT)(B) momentarily opens the speedbrakes while you hold down the key combination.When released, the speedbrakes remain in their current position.

is the opposite of GHIFT)(B), momentarily closing the speedbrakes while the keys are pressed.FALCON’ 40

AUTOPILOT TOGGLE SWITCH

Flip this switch or press (A) to toggle autopilot on or off. Turning this on activates the autopilot mode that you selected in Game Setup. Refer to Appendix A for a description of these options.

Landing Gear

Your gear limit speed on the Falcon is 300 knots. Raising or lowering the landing gear above this speed could cause serious damage.

GEAR HANDLE

Grab this handle and move it up or down to retract or extend your landing gear. You can also press to toggle the gear up or down. After you move the gear handle and while the gear is still in transition, a red light in the handle will illuminate. The light will stay on until all three landing gear are in the posi- tion indicated by the handle.When the red light goes out, all landing gear are in the right position.

STATUS LIGHTS

These three green lights represent your nose and main landing gear. Each light illuminates when the corresponding wheel is down and locked; they go out when each one is retracted.

WHEEL BRAKES

In the actual aircraft, this function is done with the top of the rudder pedals. In Falcon 4.0, toggle your wheel brakes on by pressing (K).

NOSE WHEEL STEERING

Steer the Falcon like you would any aircraft—using your feet on the rudder pedals, push your foot down in the direction you want to turn.

Exterior A/C Lights

This switch (or toggles your exterior lights on and off. Although these might only be slightly visible during daylight, you'll certainly want to make sure you turn the lights off during combat operations at night.

Emergency Stores Jettison

Nobody likes to miss out on getting their bombs on the target. Every once in a while, however, you face

a threat that just gets the upper hand. When dump- ing your external stores is necessary to save your life, then jettison your stores! Simply press the STORES JETTISON button or press (@t7)(J) to “clean the aircraft off.” Better to live to fight another day than die fighting a losing battle.

AR Status/NWS Indicator

This indicator, located to the right of the HUD, pro- vides air refueling system status information. How you refuel in midair is described in Chapter 9: Flight Operations. The three indications that illuminate are RDY, AR/NWS and DISC.

Fuel Quantity

This digital readout shows total fuel remaining in pounds. On the dial, the red hand displays your internal fuel and the gray hand displays fuel in any external tanks.

AVTR Toggle

The “audio-visual tape recorder” (AVTR) controls the recording for “air combat maneuvering instrumen- tation” (ACMI).When you toggle this switch on or press (F), recording begins and continues until you toggle it off. When the AVTR is running you will see a“RECORDING” message displayed on the screen.

Ejection Handle

When you can no longer keep your jet in the air, it's time to“give it back to the taxpayers.” Make sure you get out in time for the chute to open. When it’s time to eject, the only thing you need to do is grab the ejection handle and “pull” (or press (CTRL)(E)). After this, the Falcon and the ACES II ejection seat do everything for you, including popping off the canopy and deploying your chute.

CAUTION AND WARNING INDICATIONS

Warning lights are indications of more serious or time-critical problems. They are located on the

Mies cernsae

FALCON’ 40

edge of the glare shield (just like “eyebrows,” hence the name “eyebrow” lights) to make sure you see them. caution lights, on the other hand, are less crit- ical; they are located together on the caution panel down on the right console.

Master Caution

This button is located with the eyebrow lights on the left edge of the glare shield. It illuminates whenever something on the caution panel lights up or when a BINGO fuel state is reached. Because lights on the caution panel are not easy to see, the MASTER CAUTION light gives you a more obvious indication that something down there is wrong. As soon as you identify the problem, turn off the MAS- TER CAUTION light by pressing the button in the cockpit or using (CTRL)(C). This resets the MASTER CAUTION light so that it can alert you to any addi- tional problems.

Eyebrow Warning Lights

Hopefully these lights will catch your attention; they indicate critical problems.

LEFT EYEBROW WARNING LIGHTS

* ALT: illuminates when you are below the set ALOW altitude limit (When this light comes on, you also hear the VMS warning “ALTITUDE, ALTITUDE")

* TF:is not used in the Block 50 model of the Falcon

RIGHT EYEBROW WARNING LIGHTS

* FIRE/ENG: indicates a fire in your engine (Unless you are close to having the jet on the ground, your best recourse is to eject.)

* HYD/OIL: indicates low pressure in one or both hydraulic systems or low engine oil pres- sure (When you see this, first check your oil pressure gauge; if this is the problem, your engine could seize at any time. If you are close to an airfield, set yourself up for a flameout landing. Otherwise, get yourself as close as pos- sible to friendly territory. Hydraulic failure in the F-16 is not as serious a problem unless you lose both systems.)

* DUAL/CAN: indicates problems with either your dual flight control system or your canopy (A dual flight control system problem means that two or more of your FLCS signals are unre- liable. Any additional degradation in your FLCS could mean losing control of the jet.)

* T/L CFG: indicates your configuration is incor- rect for takeoff or landing (T/L) (This means that when the jet expects the gear to be down for landing (at slower speeds), they are still up. You will also hear the landing gear warning horn. If the gear is damaged in battle and can- not fully lock down, you will either have to eject or get very good at belly landings. If you happen to be intentionally making a slow, tight turn, just ignore this warning.)

Caution Light Panel

The lights on the caution panel indicate problems with aircraft systems that are not as critical as those indicated by warning lights.

* FLT CONT SYS: indicates a general failure of the flight control system (Your flight controls could become sluggish and make aircraft con- trol difficult. Jettison unnecessary stores and land as soon as possible.)

* FUEL LOW: minimum quantity fuel level of 750 pounds reached (The voice message system also indicates BINGO fuel status. If this condi- tion was caused by a fuel leak due to battle damage, turn toward the nearest field, jettison stores, select MIL power, and climb until you are within gliding distance for a flameout land- ing.Then reduce your fuel flow to the mini- mum required to maintain flight.)

* ECM: indicates a problem with your ECM sys- tem; don't count on being able to jam enemy radar

* LE FLAPS: indicates that the flight control sys- tem (FLCS) is having a problem controlling the leading edge flaps (LEFs) (This will affect air- craft turn performance at slower speeds and will also require landing at a higher airspeed.)

* AVIONICS: indicates a general fault with the system avionics or FLCS (You'll have to examineFALCON’40

the other caution or warning lights to deter- mine additional details about the problem.)

* HOOK: used only in emergency landings, this is normally in the up position (When this cau- tion light is illuminated, the hook is not up and locked.)

* ENGINE FAULT: loss of valid Mach data to the engine will degrade engine performance and set this light off

* RADAR ALT: indicates a malfunction of the radar altimeter (You will probably lose the AGL information displayed in the HUD and will need to refer to your altimeter.)

%* NWS FAIL: the nose wheel steering system has failed (This only affects your mission before you taxi for takeoff or after you land. You might be able to steer the aircraft using the rudder or brakes.)

* OVERHEAT: indicates an engine-overheat con- dition (Reduce throttle to the minimum required to fly and land as soon as possible. This problem has a good chance of turning into an engine fire, so get the jet on the ground.)

* IFF FAULT: other aircraft will not be able to identify you electronically

* CABIN PRESS: you have lost your canopy seal, resulting in low cabin pressure (Your oxygen mask will ensure that you continue breathing enough oxygen and don't get hypoxic.)

Horn Silencer Button

Press this to turn off the low-speed warning horn.

Voice Message System

This cockpit interface can be an effective warning to you when you don't have the caution and warn- ing lights in your field of view or don't happen to be paying attention to where you are going. The voice message system (VMS) provides audible mes- sages and tones to notify you of dangerous flight conditions or caution and warning indications.

VOICE MESSAGES

Here are the audible messages you might hear. They are listed in order of priority so that when conditions exist to trigger multiple messages, you will hear the more important ones first.

* PULLUP, PULLUP; in a descent and about to collide with the ground (If you happen to be looking at your HUD, you'll see a large flashing “X"in the display. You probably ought to follow the advice and pull up. You can turn this mes- sage off (if you really want) by clicking the ALOW button on the ICP. You can also silence this warning by actually pulling up or by collid- ing with the ground.)

* ALTITUDE, ALTITUDE: below the ALOW value set in the UFC (You can also turn this voice message off by clicking the ALOW button on the ICP)

* WARNING, WARNING: activated when any of the red eyebrow warning lights illuminate (Reset this message by pressing the MASTER CAUTION light.)

* BINGO, BINGO: 1,400 Ibs. of fuel remaining (This message corresponds with the message “WARN FUEL" displayed on the HUD. The bingo value is reset to half of its current value each time it is reached. For example, after you are warned about 1,400 Ibs. of fuel, the bingo mes- sage occurs again at 700 Ibs. of fuel. The FUEL LOW caution light will illuminate when you are down to 750 Ibs. of fuel.)

* CAUTION, CAUTION: activated seven seconds after any caution light on the caution panel

illuminates (You reset this message when you reset the MASTER CAUTION light.)

WARNING HORN

This warning horn sounds if certain conditions are met.

* Low-speed warning horn:a steady tone, this sounds when you reach a combination of slow airspeeds and high pitch angles. This situation presents the easiest condition to enter a deep stall. This horn also sounds if your AOA is greater than 15 degrees during takeoff or land- ing to warn you about scraping off the tail.

“Ssae

FALCON’ 40

Turn this off by pressing the horn silencer but- ton on the landing gear console or by pressing

(G). Here are the specific conditions that activate

the warning. * Airspeed below 190 knots

* Altitude less than 10,000 ft.

* Rate of descent greater than 250 feet per minute

SELF-PROTECTION SYSTEMS

This section describes your cockpit interface with the systems you will use to help defeat and survive threats. Your electronic countermeasure (ECM) pod, ALR-56 radar warning receiver (RWR), and ALE-40 chaff/flare dispenser are all important systems to use for self-protection in combat.

Electronic Countermeasures (ECM)

The ECM panel is on the left console (shown in fig- ure 8-3).When an ECM pod (or“jamming pod”) is loaded on your aircraft, use the ECM toggle switch or(J)to turn on your ECM system. This will be indi- cated with the PWR light on the ECM panel. If the FAIL light ever comes on, your ECM capability may not be reliable.

ALR-56 Threat Warning System (TWS)

Because your TWS is a passive system that detects radar emissions hitting your aircraft, the ALR-56 is more commonly referred to as the radar warning receiver (RWR).These radar signals can be from other aircraft or from ground radar units. The ALR- 56 processes these emissions to determine the type of radar, signal strength, and direction of the signal. The system consists of a threat display, and primary and auxiliary control panels. These are shown together in figure 8-22.

Primary control panel RWR display scope

CLOSED

RWR auxiliary panel

Fig. 8-22. RWR scope and control panels

RWR DISPLAY SCOPE

The RWR display represents a satellite’s-eye view of the world around your aircraft. You are at the center of the circle and threat radar signals are displayed around you. The 16 highest-priority threats are pre- sented according to their bearing from your aircraft and strength of their radar return. Each of these symbols also has an audible tone associated with it. The symbol that is the highest priority threat will be designated with a diamond around it. This is the threat signal you will hear the audio tone from. Use the Tactical Reference in Falcon 4.0 to learn the pos- sible RWR symbols and threat tones that you mightFALCON’ 40

see from potential radar units you're likely to encounter.

The symbol’s position on the display corre- sponds to its bearing from your aircraft.As you maneuver, the signals will rotate on the display to maintain its relative position from you. For example, a signal at the top of the display is somewhere on your nose. If you turned 90 degrees to the left, the signal would move to the right side of the display. Usually, the closer the threat is to you, the stronger the radar emissions will be; the stronger the radar signal, the closer the symbol will be positioned to the center of the display.

PRIMARY CONTROL PANEL

This panel sits just to the left of the RWR display. Here are the indications and functions of the panel. * HANDOFF: Use this to determine which threat

is selected. When the button is unlit, the high- est priority RWR threat is selected. Each time you press the HANDOFF button (or & you step to the next highest priority target. The HANDOFF button will be lit if the selected tar- get is not the highest priority.

* LAUNCH: This is only an indicator light.When it is flashing, you will also hear a high-pitched beeping. This indicates that an enemy missile launch has been detected. Remember that the threat warning system can only detect radar- guided missile launches. It will not detect a heat-seeking missile launch.

* MODE: This determines the priority of the RWR display. Press the button or (INS) to toggle between options.When it is lit, the RWR is in “priority mode” and only the five highest prior- ity threats are displayed.When it is unlit, up to 16 threat symbols may be displayed. Use prior- ity mode to de-clutter the display.

* NAVAL (boat symbol): Press the NAVAL but- ton (or (PAGE DOWN) to increase the priority of naval threat signals. If the button is unlit, naval threats are a lower priority than either air or ground based threats.

* UNK: This controls the display of unknown or undetermined radar energy sources. In most

cases, the threat warning system can deter- mine the type of radar.When signals can’t be determined, you can choose whether or not to display these. The default condition, indicated by the UNK light being off, ignores these unknown radars. However, if you press the UNK button (turning the light on), each unknown signal will be displayed on the RWR as a“U" When this button is unlit and an unknown threat is detected, this button will flash.

* TGT SEP: This spreads out multiple threat sym- bols that overlap each other on the RWR dis- play.When you press TGT SEP, the highest priority threat maintains its position and the lower priority threats are moved out and away from this symbol toward the edge of the dis- play. This allows you to see all the threats more easily.

AUXILIARY WARNING PANEL

The AUX WARN panel is located farther down the left console. You will refer to these indications less frequently than the RWR display and primary panel located in your line of sight. Here are the indications on this panel.

* SRCH: pressing this button (or (DELETE) acti- vates “search mode” (The SRCH button illumi- nates and the system will now display any search radar signals it sees with an“S” on the scope.When this mode is not selected and a search radar signal is detected, this button will flash.)

* ACT: illuminates whenever radar activity is detected

%* LOW: Press the LOW button to give priorities to threats that are more dangerous when you are at a low altitude (such as low altitude SAMs). When not lit, priority is given to threats that are more dangerous when you are at a higher altitude.

* PWR: illuminates when the RWR system is powered upFALCON’40 ALE-40 Chaff/Flare Dispenser

The CHAFF FLARE control panel (figure 8-4) controls the dispensing of your chaff and flare cartridges. Chaff and flares are used as counter- measures to decoy radar-guided and heat-seeking missiles, respectively.

CHAFF AND FLARE COUNTERS

The numbers in these windows tell you how many flares and bundles of chaff are remaining. The Fal- con starts out with a load of 60 chaff cartridges and 30 flares. These count down as you dispense them.

DISPENSER BUTTONS

Pressing the buttons underneath the counters on the control panel will actually dispense counter- measures. Also, (Z} will dispense flares and (X) will dispense chaff.

AUTO/MAN SWITCH

The AUTO/MAN switch has two settings.When set to MAN, chaff and flares are dispensed only when the pilot hits (x) or (Z). When set to AUTO, two chaff cartridges and one flare are automatically dis- pensed whenever the RWR detects a missile launch. Pressing will also toggle between automatic and manual.

CONCLUSION

If you're feeling overwhelmed, you have good rea- son;a third-generation combat aircraft is a compli- cated weapons platform. The only thing you can do is just spend time flying.

\* ok ok PART

AVIONICS

In This Section

* Chapter 10: Falcon Radar * Chapter 11: Air-to-Air Missile: * Chapter 12: The Gun

* Chapter 13: Unguided Weapons * Chapter 14: Laser-Guided Bombs * Chapter 15: Maverick

* Chapter 16: HARM Targeting SystemRadar Operation ee eas VN

In This Chapter

Easy Mode

RY iste ele

PoE Wt elelelm@ sth) Leen ee oleae ag eat eye] Realistic AN/APG-68 Radar Symbology and Controls

LET aL Cot wee eel ile | Radar Modes

Electronic Countermeasures

INTRODUCTION

Air combat has come a long way since the days when P-51 dri-

vers relied on “Mark 1” eyeballs to find and engage the threat. In modern aerial combat, tactical decisions are made well “beyond visual range” (BVR). Using your radar must become second nature if you intend to accomplish your mission, or even just survive.

Assimilating all the available information in a third-generation fighter is no easy task. To facilitate the devel- opment of your skills as a Falcon driver, Falcon 4.0 lets you choose from three different radar levels— Easy, Simpli- fied, and Realistic. Remember to determine your avionics capabilities and radar type in Game Setup before you start a mission.

While you're learning how to employ all the capabilities of the F-16, you might want to select Easy mode, which displays every aircraft or ground target 360 degrees around you; let the radar do the work for you while you concentrate on flying the airplane or delivering weapons.

Simplified mode provides a more realistic display, yet still automates many of the tasks performed by the radar. When you are ready to spend a little more time actually using the radar and not ‘just looking at it, move up to this mode. This is a good intermediate step that shouldn't overwhelm you.

Select the Realistic AN/APG-68 radar and get ready for realistic combat. You will enter the battlefield of the twentieth century operating a true third-generation fighter.FALCON’ 40

velocity vector for the target. The direction of the line indicates the relative aspect of the aircraft you've locked up, and its length is proportional to the aircraft's speed. The number under the circle represents the aircraft's altitude above sea level in thousands of feet. This is different from the Easy mode display.

Here is some additional information you get when targets are locked, shown in figure 10-3.

* Aspect angle: tells you your position in degrees from the left or right side of the target's tail (In this example,”00" means you are at the target's tail.)

* Heading: gives the magnetic ground track of the locked target (006 degrees)

* Speed: displays the target's calibrated airspeed in knots

* Closure: how fast you are closing on the target in knots per hour

A-G TARGET DISPLAY

When air-to-ground is the active radar mode, AG is displayed at the top of the MFD radar screen. Oper- ation of A-G mode is basically the same as with the air-to-air radar modes. Ground targets also appear as small squares, shown in figure 10-4.

|Ground mode radar

(No contacts

BULLSEVE Petar a swap

Fig. 10-4. Simplified radar mode AG display

REALISTIC AN/APG-68 RADAR BASICS

The AN/APG-68 fire control radar is a multimode radar capable of detecting and tracking airborne targets, mapping air-to-ground images, and track- ing moving targets on the ground. As you learn how to fly this third-generation fighter, you'll soon realize that air combat has entered the information age, just like the rest of our world. Your proficiency at operating the radar (or lack of proficiency) can give you the situation awareness you need to suc- ceed, or leave you stumbling around in the dark like shark bait.

Understanding the AN/APG-68 begins with general principles of basic radar operation and an overview of the radar symbology, all of which you'll find common throughout the radar’s various modes of operation.We'll then apply this informa- tion as we cover each specific radar mode available in the AN/APG-68. By the time you get through this chapter, you'll be an expert on F-16 radar and will be able to operate your “sixth sense” with confi- dence, ready to take on any MiG pilot that the enemy can throw at you.

Fighter pilots generally have an aversion to the “beeps and squeaks” or the otherwise gory details of an aircraft system.We want to hear “just the facts,"and don’t want someone to teach us how to build a radar, just how to use it. This section might be a painful part of learning about the Falcon, but your understanding will pay huge dividends when it really counts. Knowledge about the radar’s search pattern and how to control the radar could make all the difference in turning a tactical engagement into an offensive advantage instead of a missed inter- cept.

Radar Search Coverage

To understand how to interpret and operate your AN/APG-68 radar, you must understand some basic principles about radar operation. The azimuth cov- erage of a radar defines how far to the left and right of the aircraft's nose the radar searches, while the elevation coverage describes how much area is

|FALCON’40

covered vertically. The limits of the radar’s maxi- mum search pattern (called the gimbal limits) are 60 degrees from either side of the nose in azimuth, and up or down 60 degrees in elevation. Don't for- get—in aerial combat you must also think in three dimensions. Your radar coverage for a given eleva- tion or azimuth will depend on the distance or range from the radar. The closer the distance to the radar, the less area is covered, as shown in figure 10-5.

ee

Azimuth coverage limits

Elevation coverage limits

a Range (greater coverage farther away)

Fig. 10-5. Radar search coverage

Radar Scan Patterns

As the radar sends its beam of electromagnetic energy out, it receives and processes any of its radar waves that reflect off other objects (like that MiG in front of you) and displays this information as radar “contacts.” Because the AN/APG-68 has a small beam width, the radar must move this beam around in a specific pattern to avoid any gaps in its search volume and still build a complete picture of what is in front of you. The scan pattern for the radar is defined by the number of elevation scans, called “bars,” and the width of the azimuth scan in degrees.

ELEVATION SCAN COVERAGE

Take a look at figure 10-6. If the radar sweeps back and forth at the same elevation, it is using a one-bar search pattern. The elevation coverage of this pat- tern, however, is limited to the size of the beam width. To increase the amount of area covered, the radar can add bars to its elevation scan by shifting the radar beam down after each time it sweeps across its pattern. A two-bar search pattern means the radar sweeps across at one elevation, shifts its beam down for the sweep back, and then raises the beam up to the original elevation to continue the search pattern.To cover even more area, the radar can use a four-bar search pattern by sweeping across its search pattern and then shifting down three more times to cover four different elevation levels.

AZIMUTH SCAN COVERAGE

The radar can also scan varying degrees of cover- age horizontally using different azimuth search pat- terns. Scanning with a”+60-degree search” in azimuth would sweep the radar across the full 120- degree horizontal limits of its coverage. Different modes of the AN/APG-68 have different options for the width of azimuth search patterns. In “range while search” mode (RWS), for example, you can select a +60-, +30-, or even +10-degree search pat- tern (see figure 10-12).When the radar uses an azimuth search pattern less than +60 degrees, you can move the scan pattern around within the 120- degree gimbal limits of the radar.athe LALCON 40

covered by a one-bar scan

aS

Area covered by a two-bar scan

Area covered by a four-bar scan

Fig. 10-6. Radar elevation coverage with differ- ent bar scan options

While working in a wide-azimuth scan pattern in some of the AN/APG-68 radar modes, you can temporarily narrow your search pattern down toa +10-degree search pattern when you are focusing on one particular contact to get faster updates on the radar picture. This is called the “spotlight” mode; hold down the designate target command with keypad (0) to do this.

Just like elevation coverage, the horizontal dis- tance covered in azimuth depends on the width of the scan pattern selected in degrees, and the dis- tance from the radar.While watching a radar pic- ture 60 nm off your nose with a +30-degree search pattern, you would be looking at 60 miles of area at that range. This might be plenty of coverage at longer ranges, but at 20 nm, your +30-degree search would only cover 20 miles across, leaving some room for potential adversaries to get around your radar coverage.

REALISTIC AN/APG-68 RADAR INTERPRETATION “Sess

Radar “interpretation” simply describes what infor- mation you get from the symbology on your radar display. At least now you've got some cool termi- nology to impress your friends at the bar.

Display Orientation

The next thing you need to know about the radar is how target information is displayed. The AN/APG- 68 uses a“B scope” presentation that places radar contacts on your scope based on their range and azimuth from your position (a range-versus- azimuth display). This means the vertical distance up the MFD on the radar scope corresponds to the range between you and the contact, while the posi- tion of a contact left or right on the scope corre- sponds to the position of the target in azimuth off the nose of your F-16. Once again—azimuth left and right is degrees left or right off your nose, while up or down is range in nautical miles from you to the contact.

AZIMUTH PRESENTATION

The B scope display essentially takes a normal radar picture and stretches the azimuth lines out as the range decreases to make the presentation fit in the square MFD, This expands the picture at closer ranges to spread target symbols out and make them easier to read, shown in figure 10-7. Think of it in terms of having the whole bottom of the radar MFD represent your whole aircraft, and the center still corresponding to the nose of your F-16.Con- tacts that come straight down the scope toward the bottom of the MFD are maintaining the same azimuth track directly toward your aircraft.

As a reference for interpreting the azimuth pic- ture of the AN/APG-68, from the center of the MFD (or nose of your F-16) to either side is 60 degrees. A radar contact half way between the center and side of the MFD would be half of 60, or 30 degrees off your nose.To point the nose of your F-16 at that particular contact, you would turn toward it 30 degrees. As you turn, you'll see the contact on the display move to the center of the MFD.FALCON’40

roughly the same heading, then they should be Normal pie-shaped radar sweep seeing generally the same picture—a contact “40 right” on their scope.

RANGE DISPLAY

Determining the distance from you to a target depends on which range presentation the radar has selected. Depending on the radar modes, the AN/APG-68 can be set to give you 10, 20, 40, 80, or 160 nm pictures. The range set at any given time corresponds to the distance from the bottom to top of the radar MFD. The displayed range between you and a radar contact is directly proportional to the distance of the contact from the bottom of the radar scope.

For example, a radar contact three-quarters of the way up a 40 nm scope would be three-quarters of 40 nm, or 30 nm away. The range marks on the Translated into a B scope display right side of the display help you gauge the range to a contact by giving you a scale for one-quarter, one-half, and three-quarters of the distance up the scope. Figure 10-8, for example, is set toa 20 nm scope range. The target that is locked up is just above the middle tick mark which would put it just more than half of 20 nm, or about 11 nm off your nose. To know how many miles a contact is in range from you, you'll have to keep track of what range scale you have set.

a Na ovo | erat

as BC

Range scale (20NM)

Fig. 10-7. B scope display Radar

contact locked up

When describing the position of a contact to another flight member, F-16 drivers usually talk in terms of 10-degree increments to keep the picture simple yet descriptive. When you look at a radar pic- ture, mentally divide the MFD up into four 30- degree sections, and then each of those into thirds. Radar elevation coverage You'll now have your 10-degree segments and = ee eek ana you'll be labeling a radar picture in your sleep. Talk- ing about a contact"40 right” would mean you're talking about something 40 degrees to the right of your nose. If you and your wingmen are flying

Fig. 10-8. RWS radar display

You'll find out the significance of managing your range scale on your first tactical intercept. First,FALCON’ 40

you'll want to detect a radar contact as soon as you can. If your target is a greater distance from you than your range-scale picture on the radar, you won't see it until it gets within that range. After you've acquired the target on the radar and begin your intercept, you'll quickly notice how cramped things can get down on the bottom of the scope if you leave a longer range-scale presentation dis- played. Contacts that are only 10 nm away would be in the bottom eighth of your radar scope if you left it on an 80 nm scale. A good rule of thumb is to manage your range scale to keep your radar con- tact in the top half of the MFD.

TARGET DISPLAY

After the radar sweeps through one complete search pattern, it presents you with one “frame” of information, just like a frame of film in a motion pic- ture. As the radar completes subsequent search patterns, it continues to update the information in the picture. The radar must sweep its beam through the scan pattern at a specific speed in order to process the signals from the radar returns. The greater the area covered by the radar's search pat- tern, the longer it takes the radar to build the pic- ture frame and update the information.

In fighter pilot plain English, this means when you want to detect radar contacts, use the largest search volume possible when you don't care how fast the radar takes to update its picture. Otherwise, narrow the radar’s search pattern to update infor- mation faster on one particular contact or group of contacts. Do this by selecting a narrower azimuth search pattern and decreasing the range to a smaller picture. You can also switch between radar modes optimized for different purposes.

In search modes, when the radar sees its signal reflect off a target, it displays this as a square on the scope called a“search target.” As the radar sweeps through its search pattern and builds another frame of information, it displays new squares at the updated position of the search targets and fades the previous symbols for each target. As each target symbol fades, it gives the effect of a history trail behind the target as it moves across your scope with each updated radar picture (as you can see in figure 10-9). These search targets and their “target

histories” are referred to as “raw data,” or the infor- mation from just the radar returns themselves.

Target histories

from raw radar returns

Radar cursor over the radar contact with SAD displayed underneath (10,000 ft.)

Radar elevation coverage at this range = 4-14,000 ft.

Fig. 10-9. Radar search target histories

Because “track while scan” (TWS) mode makes some calculations on the raw data before present- ing it, the initial search target display differs slightly from radar search modes. In either case, you can still interpret some basic information about a target from this initial data, before an actual radar lock is taken. Target histories can give some clues about a radar contact’s closure, aspect, and a general idea of where the target is heading. You'll learn more about this in the chapters on basic fighter maneuvers and intercepts, where you'll actually apply your radar knowledge to intercepting and engaging the con- tacts on your scope. For now, here's a basic descrip- tion to help you interpret the information you see on your radar. siiateces

Closure describes the rate at which you approach or“close” on a target, usually measured in airspeed (nm/hour). If you and a radar contact fly directly at each other, your closure rate will be the target's airspeed combined with your airspeed. Fly- ing 500 knots toward a MiG flying 500 knots means you're closing at 1000 nm/hour! If you are chasing down a target from behind, your closure rate will be the target's airspeed subtracted from yours. If that MiG is running away from you at 500 knots and you're still only going 400 knots, then you have a negative closure rate (400 - 500 = -100).In other words, he's getting away!Se

FALCON’40

What will this look like on your radar? Remem- ber the discussion on the radar's search pattern; it takes time for the radar to get through a complete sweep and display a frame of information. If there is a high rate of closure, that MiG could have come quite a bit closer during the time between the most recent radar return and the previous target history. Therefore, a target with a high closure rate will move quickly down your scope and show lots of distance between target histories. When there is a low closure rate, the distance between you and the target doesn't change as drastically as the radar sweeps through its search pattern. The target histo- ries in this case will be much closer together, like figure 10-9.

The spatial relationship with the target that determines your closure rate is aspect. Aspect angle is the number of degrees from the tail of the target aircraft to your position, measured 0-180 degrees left or right of the target's tail. Refer to Chapter 18 for a visual depiction of this. A high aspect angle means the contact is coming toward you, referred toas a“high aspect target.” In this case, you'll have a high rate of closure if you're both moving fast. If the MiG is pointing directly at you, you have a 180- degree aspect angle. The lower the aspect angle, the closer you are to the MiG's six o'clock. If you are off the right side of the target's tail, you have a right aspect angle. Straight off the target's left wing would be a 90-degree left aspect.

This information will be much more useful when we talk about tactical employment, but here's how to interpret the information on your radar dis- play. Remember, from our discussion of the radar’s azimuth display, that target histories coming straight down the scope indicate that the radar contact is maintaining the same azimuth off your nose. This means the target's heading and aspect are keeping it on a course coming directly at you (a high-aspect target). If the target histories of a con- tact drift to the side, the contact generally has a lower aspect or is heading off to the side as it approaches. The target histories in figure 10-9 are coming down the scope but drifting to the left. This tells you it is probably a left-aspect target.

REALISTIC AN/APG-68 RADAR SYMBOLOGY AND CONTROLS

Many of the control functions for the AN/APG-68 radar that you'll learn about in this section are simi- lar throughout the different modes.

Target Management

The “acquisition cursor” consists of two small verti- cal lines that you “slew” or move around the radar picture with your arrow keys. This will be your pri- mary means of managing radar contacts. In addi- tion, the acquisition cursor also displays and controls search pattern information.

Attached to the right side of the cursor is the min/max search altitude. This tells you what actual area in elevation the radar is searching at the range of the cursor’s position.In some cases, slewing the cursor around also directs the radar’s search pattern and can change some of the search pattern set- tings. (This is discussed in more detail later.)

SEARCH ALTITUDE DISPLAY (SAD)

When you slew your cursor over the top of a search target, the target's altitude shows up underneath the radar return. This is called the “search altitude display” (SAD) capability, displayed as a two-digit number representing the target's altitude in thou- sands of feet. In figure 10-9 you can see the target's altitude as 10 (for 10,000 ft.). This allows you to build some 3-D situation awareness on the radar picture even before you lock up any targets. When you do lock up a contact, the target's altitude will display continuously underneath its symbol.

TARGET ACQUISITION

“Acquisition” is the term used for locking up a search target. Two of the AN/APG-68 radar modes, track while scan (TWS) and air combat mode (ACM), have the capability to automatically acquire targets. In range while search (RWS) or velocity search (VS), however, you must manually acquire a radar lock.To do this, position the cursor over the radar return you wish to acquire and select the des- ignate target command, keypad (0).FALCON’40

When you do this, the radar focuses its search around the position of the cursor to look for the tar- get. The first target that the radar’s beam sweeps across will be the one it locks up. When a contact is closing rapidly toward you, remember to place the cursor ahead (or below the contact on the MFD) at the leading edge of the search target to make sure it doesn’t get past the cursor before you've com- manded a lock.

When you designate the target, you are telling the radar to focus extra attention to keep track of that contact and give you all of the information available about it. The radar displays this contact as a circled triangle with a pointer showing the gen- eral direction of the target, as you can see in figure 10-8. The length of the pointer generally corre- sponds to the airspeed of the target.

In some cases, the radar continues to search while maintaining track information on the bugged target. The next level of target acquisition is single target track (STT).In this mode, the radar beam is directed solely toward the target being tracked, and the radar MFD picture will show only this target.

TARGET DATA

When you've locked a target, you'll get a digital readout of the target's aspect angle, magnetic ground track, calibrated airspeed, and closure rate displayed across the top of the MFD.This informa- tion always applies to the primary acquired target, called the “bugged” target. Get familiar with this information, shown in figure 10-8, so you can refer to it quickly without having to think about what each number tells you. You'll be seeing some pretty high closure rates when you intercept a MiG at high aspect, and you won't have much time to analyze what he’s doing!

The first target data number in the top left cor- ner of the radar MFD is the target's aspect. This is displayed in degrees by a two-digit number (repre- senting degrees 10) followed by L or R. For exam- ple, 15L means the target has a 150-degree Left aspect angle, or that your position is 150 degrees from the left side of his tail. You'll learn about the importance of aspect angle in our discussion on basic intercepts. For now, remember that the bugged target symbol's pointer is not as accurate a depiction of the target's aspect as the digital read- out. As you run an intercept on a target, monitor

the aspect number and don't rely solely on the symbol.

The second number across the top of the dis- play is the target's magnetic ground track. This doesn't have much significance in a one-on-one intercept when all that matters is you and the MiG. It will become important when you're part of a package during a campaign. Aspect angle only applies to your position in relation to the threat. A target's heading is information anyone can use about where the threat is heading in relation to other members of your package or the target area you are trying to attack.

The third and fourth numbers show the target's calibrated airspeed and closure, respectively, dis- played in nm/hour. Don't forget to cross-check these numbers when you are trying to lock up and engage a threat. That fast-approaching MiG you thought you locked up just might be a slow-speed helicopter!

INTERCEPT STEERING SYMBOL

The intercept steering symbol is another piece of information that shows up in several AN/APG-68 modes. The symbol is a small cross that is displayed when a radar contact is locked up.The position of the symbol on the MFD tells you the direction you would have to fly to run a collision course with the radar contact. See Chapter 19: Intercept Basics, for more information about this.

BULLSEYE INFORMATION

One final piece of information that will be useful once you begin taking part in full-fledged cam- paign missions is the bullseye position data. Bulls- eye is the term describing a common point used by everyone in the theater as a positional reference. In the F-16 displays, this shows up as a symbol consist- ing of several concentric circles. Refer to figure 10- 10 for the following description.

You can use bullseye to refer to your position or the position of another aircraft, like when you want AWACS to declare whether a radar contact is friendly or hostile. In the Falcon, this information is displayed in the lower-left corner of the Radar page or HSD page on the MFD.

First let's look at your position off of bullseye. Inside the circle is your range from bullseye. On the edge of the circle you will see a tick mark pointing

|

Mere 2%ae

FALCON’40

toward the bullseye to help provide extra reference

for your position. Underneath the circle is your bearing from bullseye. In the example of figure 10-

10 your position would be 136 degrees for 31 miles

from bullseye.

Bullseye symbol Radar cursor at 070° for 26 NM from bullseye

HSD range scale Bullseye symbol

Shadow cursor ee North indication

HH Your aircraft position

Cursor position from bullseye

Your position from bullseye

Fig. 10-10. Radar and HSD pages with bullseye information

Notice in the HSD display in figure 10-10 where the position of the aircraft symbol is in relation to the bullseye. If you look at the North indicator and the aircraft range from bullseye, this position (136 degrees for 31 nm) makes sense.

What about using bullseye information as a common reference to identify other aircraft? This is done by the position of your radar cursor off of bullseye. In figure 10-10, notice the two numbers

directly above the position circle. In this example, they are 070 and 26. This is the bearing and range of your cursor from the bullseye, or 070 degrees for 26 miles from the bullseye.

If you wanted to question AWACS about the radar contact underneath your cursor, you could now refer to that contact by its position off the bullseye, like this:“AWACS, declare contact at bulls- eye 070 degrees for 26 miles.” Because you are using a common reference (the information off bullseye), anyone who hears your radio call will be able to locate that position.

It might help to get a visual representation of this concept in an actual situation. Figure 10-11 shows a map with the bullseye point plotted and a compass rose with range rings depicted, too. When we describe a bearing and range from the bullseye, its not just a black hole in the sky somewhere on your MFD; it’s actually someplace over the ground.

Fig. 10-11. Map depiction of bullseye information

In this case, the bullseye map is laid out with 20- degree increments for the compass rose and 20- mile range rings. If you plotted your position, 136 degrees for 31 miles, it would plot out as shown inFALCON’40

figure 10-11. Your cursors would plot out to a point over the river running between steerpoints 5 and 6.

When you get familiar with this format of infor- mation, you'll be able to understand much more of what you hear happening during a campaign. This will help you maintain much more situation aware- ness concerning where you are in relation to what is going on across the peninsula.

Search Pattern and Controls

Down the left side of the radar MFD are the settings that control the radar’s search pattern—the range scale, azimuth search pattern, and elevation bar scan, shown in figure 10-12. You can change these settings with specific keyboard commands, or enter the virtual cockpit and directly make OSB selections on the MFD. Also, much of the functionality of the AN/APG-68 can be programmed into your stick and throttle to operate with HOTAS (hands on the throt- tle and stick).

RANGE

The current range scale is the number displayed along the left side of the MFD next to OSBs 19 and 20. Range scale options in the AN/APG-68 radar include 10, 20, 40,80, and 160 nm pictures, depend- ing on the particular mode selected. Increase and

decrease radar range scale with (F4 Jand(F3 J, respectively. Figure 10-12 shows radar displays with

a20 nm scale.

Antenna elevation caret

Range scale

Azimuth scan

Bar scan

Antenna azimuth caret

rr

Above and below the range scale number on the MFD is an up and down arrow, which corre- spond to increasing or decreasing the range scale, which you do by pressing OSB 20 and 19 in the 2-D Front Cockpit view.

You can also change the range scale by slewing the cursor to the top or bottom of the display to “bump” the range scale up or down. If you have a contact locked up, the radar will automatically change the range scale for you as your distance from the target increases or decreases to the top or bottom edge of the MFD.

AZIMUTH

The azimuth scan, represented by the single-digit number located under the “A” next to OSB 18, repre- sents the number of degrees of coverage the radar is searching in azimuth (10). A“6" is displayed for +60 degrees of coverage, as shown in figure 10-12. A“3" for +30, and a1” for +10.When you've selected anything less than a 60-degree scan, you'll see two vertical lines extending from top to bottom on the MFD depicting the azimuth scan limits of that particular pattern.

Moving the acquisition cursor laterally moves the scan pattern across the scope within the 120- degree gimbal limits of the radar. Because the radar display across the MFD itself represents +60 degrees of scan coverage, the azimuth scan limit bars are obviously not displayed with “A6” selected.

rear aa

Fig. 10-12. Radar examples of range scale, azimuth scan, and bar scan options

Tlee

FALCON’40

By pressing OSB-18 in your virtual cockpit, you can cycle through the different azimuth scan options of the radar. You can momentarily switch to a+10-degree and four-bar search pattern to rapidly scan a small area, called aspotlight search.” You enter this search mode by commanding and hold- ing the keypad (0) key for the designate command. The azimuth scan of the radar will narrow to a +10- degree search (with the corresponding azimuth scan limit bars displayed) while you hold down the designate command.

If the cursor is over a target when you release the designate command, the radar will attempt the next level of track on that target (either making a search target into a bugged target, or making a bugged target into a single-target track). If you don't want to lock up a target from spotlight search, then just move the cursor away from any contact before you release the designate com- mand.

ELEVATION

The number above the “B” next to OSB-17 indicates the number of elevation bars in the vertical scan pattern of the radar. You can toggle through the elevation search options (1,2, and 4, for example, in RWS) by pressing OSB-17 in your virtual cockpit, or by toggling GHIFT)(F8 }to change radar bar scans. Figure 10-12 shows a four-bar scan pattern.

Remember from our discussion on elevation scan patterns that even a four-bar scan pattern only covers a small portion of the full 120-degree verti- cal limits of the radar. You control the elevation angle of the radar’s scan and must manage what altitude the radar is searching with “antenna tilt control,” also called “el-strobe control” (for elevation strobe).

Understanding the limits of your radar’s search pattern helps you know when another aircraft might be outside your radar coverage or when a contact is about to leave your radar’s search pat- tern, either vertically or laterally. This is called “gim- balling”a contact, which comes from being outside the gimbal limits of the radar. Allowing this to hap- pen could mean losing the radar contact, missing the intercept, and taking it up the shorts as your enemy swings around to your six o'clock unob- served!

If a threat has any chance of getting past your radar search, more than likely it will happen under or over the limits of your elevation coverage. Use the min/max search altitudes displayed on the right side of the cursor to keep your radar searching the right altitude. If you need to search higher or lower, use the tilt radar antenna up or tilt radar antenna down commands by pressing (F7 Jor (F5 J, respec- tively. You can also press (F center the eleva- tion scan pattern off your nose. Some throttles have dedicated “antenna switches” that you can use specifically to manage your el-strobe.

ANTENNA POSITION CUES

With the radar actively searching, you'll see the azimuth and elevation carets scanning across the bottom or side of the radar MFD (figure 10-12). When the radar is in STT, the azimuth and elevation carets will stabilize at the azimuth and elevation angle of the tracked target.

The azimuth caret scans back and forth on the bottom of the MFD to show you the exact lateral position of the radar in azimuth. As you switch azimuth search patterns, you'll see the azimuth caret stay within the respective limits of the scan pattern.The antenna elevation caret shifts up and down along the left side of the MFD, stopping for each bar scan in elevation, to show you the actual elevation angle of the antenna. The elevation caret will step down the same number of times as the bar scan selected.

You can use these carets as cues for not “gim- balling” a target beyond the limits of the radar and losing your lock. Each tick mark along the path of the azimuth and elevation carets represents 10 degrees in azimuth or elevation. Full deflection to the side of the MFD equals 60 degrees from center. If the elevation caret approaches the upper or lower limits of the radar, you are close to gimballing the target in elevation. Azimuth is a little more obvi- ous, as you will see both the caret and the target approaching the side of the MFD.

Also use the target locator line in the HUD to monitor the gimbal limits of the radar. If the degrees of angle-off approach 60, pull in the direc- tion of the locator line to bring the nose closer to the target to keep from gimballing.FALCON’ 40

Aircraft Orientation

The artificial horizon marker in the center of the dis- play always stays parallel with the horizon, with the horizon tick marks pointing toward the ground. This also indicates the pitch of the aircraft by moving toward the top of the display when your nose is pitched down and moving toward the bottom when pitched up, similar to your ADI presentation.

Bullseye Information

This is covered previously in the general description of radar display symbology.

HUD Radar Target Display

Several pieces of information about a radar contact can be found in the HUD. After you become familiar with the HUD information, you'll find yourself spending less time looking down at the MFD.

Closure with} target

Target designator box

Target aspect

Range to target

Fig. 10-13. HUD radar information

In the bottom right corner is a digital readout for your range to the target. In figure 10-13, this is 4.5 nm.|f the target is in the HUD field of view you

will see the target designator (TD) box around the target.

On the missile reticle circle is an arrow repre- senting the aspect of the target. If you imagine the nose of your aircraft as the top of the circle, the arrow points in the direction the target is flying. This tells you the aspect of the target. Figure 10-13 shows about a 17L aspect, or 170-degree aspect angle on the left side of the target.

Your closure rate with the target in nm/hour is displayed next to the “dynamic launch zone” (DLZ) range cue. In figure 10-13, this is 1,456 nm/hour.

Non-Cooperative Target Recognition (NCTR)

The Falcon’s NCTR capability gets its name from try- ing to identify a radar contact without it knowing or voluntarily giving you the information. When you have a bugged target, your radar analyzes the data from its radar return and tries to assess whether it is a friendly or enemy aircraft.

The NCTR display looks like a bar that begins at the center of the MFD and extends to the left or right to indicate whether it has enough information to classify the contact. If the bar extends to the left, the system has picked up data supporting this con- tact as an enemy. If the bar extends to the right, the system has confirmed this contact to be friendly. The more the bar extends to the side, the more cer- tain the computer is of the data. The highest cer- tainty is identified with the bar extended all the

way to the side.

You can see the bar on the top of the MFD in Meare figure 10-8 has extended to the left of center, indi- . cating that the radar is picking up information that me

supports this as an enemy aircraft.

REALISTIC RADAR MODES

All of the information you've just learned will apply to most of the radar modes in the AP/APG-68 radar. If you've made it this far, you've learned almost all you need to know. Now we'll just finish up by cover- ing a few specific things about each of the specific radar modes of RWS,TWS,VS, and ACM.FALCON’ 40

Range While Search (RWS)

As an F-16 pilot, RWS will be your primary search mode for radar lookout and target detection. RWS covers the largest search volume of airspace, so you'll find yourself using RWS while you clear your way to the target area or search out threats at longer ranges. Because this is the most basic mode of the AN/APG-68 radar, most of the RWS symbol- ogy and displays were described in previous sec- tions and should already be familiar to you.

SEARCH PATTERN DISPLAY

Range scale selections in RWS include 10, 20, 40, 80, and 160 nm pictures. Use the 80 nm scope when trying to build a long-range picture of what is hap- pening in front of you. Remember to scale down the range as targets of interest get closer. All of the means for changing the range scale (described above) are available in RWS. If you have the cursor control programmed into a throttle switch setting, you'll probably find yourself bumping the cursor against the top or bottom of the MFD to change the range scale as an actual F-16 pilot would do.

Azimuth scan options include +60, +30, and +10-degree scan pattern widths. Use +60 degrees when you need the widest coverage for detecting any threats that might be a factor to your mission. If you're focusing on a specific threat, narrow your search down to +30 degrees so that the radar pic- ture updates faster and gives you better informa- tion on what you're about to engage. Remember, too, that you have spotlight search available by holding down the designate command to tem- porarily give you a +10-degree search pattern.

Bar scan options for RWS include one-, two-, and four-bar scan patterns. Because radar elevation is the hardest parameter of the radar to control, keep four bar selected. Decreasing the elevation bars in the radar’s scan pattern updates your radar picture faster, but will significantly limit your search altitude. It’s much easier to narrow the radars search by decreasing your range and azimuth than by changing elevation bar scans.

RWS SYMBOLOGY

The primary RWS radar presentation displays any detected raw contacts it finds in the radar’s scan pattern as “search targets.” The RWS symbology for

search targets is a small square, as seen in figure 10- 9.As the radar makes a complete sweep through the selected scan pattern, it updates the picture with a new “frame” of information. A new search tar- get symbol is displayed to update the target's posi- tion, while previous symbols for each target fade to produce a trail of target histories.

Search altitude display (SAD) information appears when you slew the acquisition cursor over a search target. The min/max search altitude on the right side of the cursor gives you the radar’s eleva- tion coverage at the range of the cursor’s position. This is determined by the current bar scan of the radar (selected on the MFD) and the tilt position of the antenna (which you control). In figure 10-9, the SAD readout indicates 10,000 ft. for the radar con- tact, with the elevation coverage between 4 and 14,000 ft.

If an azimuth scan less than +60 degrees is selected, azimuth scan limit lines are displayed, cen- tered around the cursor. You can move this search area back and forth across the scope by slewing the cursor.

To lock on a radar contact, slew the cursor over the search target you want to acquire and select the designate target command, keypad (0). The radar will then turn this search target into a bugged target (shown in figure 10-14) and transition to the situation awareness mode (SAM).

Cae Cee ee

rt

Bugged target and search target displayed in SAM

Fig. 10-14. SAM in the RWS radar modeFALCON’40

SITUATION AWARENESS MODE (SAM)

SAM is the first level of target tracking in RWS. In SAM, the bugged target symbol (a circled triangle with a pointer) replaces the search target and the radar displays the bugged target's information across the top of the MFD.While tracking a bugged target, the AN/APG-68 continues to sweep the radar in SAM, displaying any other search targets it detects in its scan pattern. If the azimuth scan of the radar is less than +60 degrees with a bugged target locked up, you can still slew the scan pattern of the radar with the cursor, but only as far as will keep the bugged target within the scan limits of the radar.

In RWS, only one target can be locked on and tracked at any given time. To bug another search target, slew the cursor over to another search target and command a designate there. The radar should transition its lock to the selected target. To “un-bug” a target, just select the radar return to search com- mand by pressing keypad (..} and RWS returns to the search mode.

The final level of target tracking in RWS is single target track (STT).This level of target acquisition is identical in any mode of the AN/APG-68 radar. To enter STT from RWS, slew the cursor over a bugged target and command designate target a second time.

Single Target Track (STT)

This is the most stable radar lock the AN/APG-68 can maintain with the least chance of losing “track” of a target. In STT, the bugged target becomes the only contact the radar displays as the radar focuses on the one you've singled out, presumably as your prey.

From STT, the first radar return to search com- mand will drop the radar back to the level or mode of track it left before entering STT.In RWS and TWS, the currently locked target becomes a bugged tar- get.

Track While Scan (TWS)

When you have detected the threats that could be a factor to your mission and it’s time to start clear- ‘ing out the riff-raff, it’s probably time to use TWS. As the multitarget track mode of the AN/APG-68 radar,

TWS keeps track of up to 16 targets, allowing you to engage multiple airborne threats simultaneously. The disadvantage of TWS is its more limited search capability. Because it requires more time and effort for the radar to track multiple targets, TWS cannot handle sweeping a scan pattern as large as the radar’s pure search modes can cover. For this rea- son, the scan pattern options of TWS are more restrictive than RWS.

“Se

Track while scan mode

Fig. 10-15. TWS radar mode with multiple targets tracked

TWS SCAN PATTERN SETTINGS imei

Range scale selections for TWS only include 10, 20, 40, and 80 nm scope. TWS also limits you to only two azimuth and bar scan combinations. When you press OSB-17 next to the bar scan setting on the left side of the MFD, you will toggle between the two options. You can also use the change bars scan command by pressing (SHIFT) ;

Here are the two scan options.

* +25-degree sweep in azimuth and three-bar elevation scan

* +10-degree sweep in azimuth and four-bar elevation scanae

FALCON’40

NON-PRIORITIZED TRACKED TARGETS

TWS first displays targets as small squares called “non-prioritized tracked targets.” TWS mode auto- matically prioritizes these targets if they stay within the scan beam for more than three seconds. A non- prioritized target just means the radar is building a track file of information on the contact.

PRIORITIZED TRACKED TARGET

“Prioritized” tracked targets are displayed as trian- gles with a velocity vector extending out the front and the altitude readout below the triangle. As in RWS, the direction of the velocity vector shows the general aspect of the target, and the length of the line is proportional to the target's speed. Refer to figure 10-15 for an example.

BUGGED TARGETS

When you designate a prioritized target, you make this the target of interest, or the“bugged” target (see figure 10-15). You now get the same target information as you do with an RWS SAM target. Designate a second time on the bugged target and you enter STT.

Velocity Search (VS)

This radar mode is significantly different from RWS and TWS. It is designed to display contacts that have a high aspect and closure, assuming contacts coming toward you will be the highest threat. Instead of the range scale you are used to with RWS and TWS, VS uses a velocity reference, showing how fast a contact is coming toward you instead of its range from you.

VS RADAR DISPLAY

With VS selected, you'll find “VS” displayed in the upper-left corner of the radar MFD. Target informa- tion is still displayed in azimuth by the position of a contact to the left or right from the center of the radar. The search pattern in VS is similar to the other modes, with azimuth and elevation bar search selections made the same way you've done in RWS orTWS.

Now, however, the vertical position of a contact up the scope determines its velocity toward you in nm/hour of closure. The VS display sets a velocity scale on the upper-left side of the MFD instead of a

range scale. This is changed the same way you change the range scale in RWS and functions in a similar way. The scale options you can set are either 1,200 knots or 2,400 knots of closure. The distance of a contact up the scope corresponds to its veloc- ity, in closure, toward you. With the 1,200-knot scale set in figure 10-16, for example, the radar contact has a closure velocity of approximately 1000 knots toward you.

Velocity vs search radar mode contact

Velocity scale (NM/hour of closure)

Azimuth search Bar scan

Position from

Bullseye swan Pn

\ Pee taltaltaltal

Fig. 10-16. VS radar display

The difficult part of understanding the VS dis- play is remembering that the only search targets you see will be the ones coming toward you. The faster a contact is coming toward you, the farther up the scope it will be. Take a look at the example in figure 10-17.When the target is moving away, no search histories are displayed. As the target begins a turn toward you, the search histories begin to show up when a positive closure rate develops. As the closure rate continues to increase, the search target moves up the range scale in velocity.

The cursor controls in the other modes are simi- lar in VS.To lock on to a target, you'll still slew the cursor over the search target and designate it. You now switch to STT, which means the displayFALCON’ 40

changes on you again. With a radar lock, you now see the standard range scale display. Assuming you were looking for the fastest closing target as your greatest threat, it's probably a good idea to know how far away the target is from you now that you've locked on. Consequently, you'll see the velocity scale switch to a range scale number once this happens.

Closure increases

Target receding

as target turns (no closure) toward you ' ' 1 1 \ 1 1 t (VS radar display)

_——

Fig. 10-17. Depiction of VS target display with change in closure

In STT, the target symbology for a radar lock is the same as the other radar modes. You should see a triangle with a circle around it.To drop a radar lock, return to search just as you would in RWS or TWS. But once you do this in VS, the display changes back to the velocity scale again.

Air Combat Maneuvering (ACM) Modes

The ACM mode of the radar gives you an automatic acquisition capability for “within visual range” engagements, which is the technical phrase for a knife fight in a phone booth. Your familiarity and confidence in using ACM will pay off when you hit the merge and need the quickest radar lock you can get.

Of the four ACM scan patterns available, you can select the one that will give you the best advantage for any given situation. HUD scan mode in ACM scans the radar over the field of view of the HUD, locking up the first target it sees in its 20 x 30- degree scan pattern. Boresight scan mode allows you to point the radar at a specific target to lock it up.When you are already turning toward a target with your lift vector pointing straight at it, use the Vertical scan mode. Finally, the ACM Slewable scan mode allows you to move around a 20 x 60-degree scan pattern within the gimbal limits of the radar. Keep in mind the difference between general AN/APG-68 radar modes (RWS, TWS, VS, and ACM) and these specificscan modes” of ACM.

In all ACM modes, you'll notice a fixed range selection of 10 nm, represented by a“10" next to OSB-19 on the MFD. This is the farthest distance the radar will attempt to lock on to help make sure you find the closest threat and keep the radar from snagging any contact flying in front of your radar. While the radar sweeps through its scan pattern, the first contact the radar beam hits will be the one locked up.When the radar has acquired a target, the MFD converts to an STT presentation with the range scale adjusting for the target's range.

When you first select an ACM radar mode, you will see “NO RAD" displayed in the HUD.This means the radar is not radiating, giving you a chance to make sure you are pointing the radar where you want it before it transmits and automatically locks the first target it finds. To begin transmitting the radar again, simply select the same ACM key you just used to enter the mode.

Your options for entering ACM are either by commanding the Dogfight master mode by press- ing (D) or toggling through air-to-air radar modes with (F1_).When you call up the Dogfight mode,

aFALCON’ 40

the radar initializes in the HUD 20 x 30 scan mode. If you've already toggled into another scan mode, just manually reselect the HUD mode. Selecting a spe- cific ACM mode can be done with the following keys.

selects ACM Boresight scan mode

selects ACM 20 x 30 scan mode selects ACM Slewable scan mode selects ACM 10 x 60 Vertical scan

* * *

mode

HUD MODE (20 x 30)

Use this radar search pattern when you can turn and point your jet close enough toward the target to see it in the HUD. The radar scan pattern in this mode searches a 20 x 30-degree area that closely resembles the field of view (FOV) through your HUD (shown in figure 10-18). The one limitation to using this mode occurs when you have several air- craft together within your HUD FOV. The first con- tact the radar sees as it scans this area will be the one it acquires, whether it was the one you wanted or not.To be more discriminating about which air- craft you lock, refer to the next section on Boresight scan mode. If no other aircraft are nearby the target, the HUD scan mode will certainly do the job.

20x 30 ACM scan area

Fig. 10-18. HUD view with search area of ACM 20 x 30 mode depicted

The HUD symbology with this scan pattern does not give you any specific cues about what scan mode the radar is using, so confirm you've selected the HUD scan mode by glancing down at your radar MFD. As in figure 10-19, you'll see “ACM” indicating your current air-to-air radar mode and “20" displayed on the top center of the MFD indicat- ing the 20 x 30-degree HUD scan pattern. In this ACM scan mode, the two vertical “goal post” lines set in the center of the MFD represent the 30- degree wide search pattern.

As the radar is sweeping to find a target, you'll see the elevation caret moving up and down on the left side of the MFD and the azimuth caret cycling within the confines of the search pattern at the bottom. No target information is displayed until the radar has locked on, because you are presum- ably looking through the HUD to acquire some- thing.

ACM 20x30 scan mode

ti | 20 felt a

Fig. 10-19. 20 x 30 ACM display on the MFD

When the radar acquires a target, you'll see the full digital readout of information on the contact across the top of the MFD, the radar picture will return to a B scope display, and the target will be displayed as an STT symbol.FALCON’ 40

BORESIGHT

Sometimes combat employment calls for an axe and sometimes a scalpel. When you want to pick Someone out of a crowd, Boresight scan mode is the ACM tool of choice. Command the boresight scan from ACM and the radar points its radar beam directly off your nose. The first thing it sees it locks, so all you have to do is point at the target that you want to acquire.

The HUD symbology gives you the reference for where to point. In the ACM Boresight scan mode, you'll see the boresight cross displayed in the HUD, just below the aircraft boresight cross. Imagine a circle around the edges of the cross and a rough gouge where the radar is pointing. The MFD will also display BORE for the radar mode to indicate you are in ACM Boresight scan mode.

ACM boresight mode with bore cross

Fig. 10-20. ACM Boresight scan mode cross in the HUD

VERTICAL SCAN

This scan pattern is a narrow search pattern in azimuth, but a very tall scan pattern in elevation, set directly off your nose. It is only 10 degrees wide but 60 degrees high. In relation to the aircraft boresight cross, the search pattern starts about 7 degrees below the cross and reaches 53 degrees above it.

Fig. 10-21. ACM Vertical scan pattern in the MFD

This scan is helpful in locking a contact that is straight above your nose in line with your lift vector but not actually in your HUD FOV yet.

The way you would use this mode is by com- manding this scan within the ACM radar mode and rotating your lift vector to put the target straight above your nose. As you do this you can begin pulling him into the HUD FOV as you are turning, and if you've got the scan pattern lined up with the contact, the radar should lock on.

In the MFD, you'll see“60" for the radar mode label. Before you get a lock, there will be two verti- cal lines depicting a narrow search pattern (see fig- ure 10-21). After a target is acquired, the symbology in the MFD is similar to the other STT displays. You should see a vertical line in the HUD (figure 10-22) reminding you where the radar’s scan pattern is looking in the 10 x 60 Vertical scan mode. Use that line to point the radar's search at the contact, and you should soon be locked on and engaged.

as

ACM 10x60 vertical scan mode

Cio b BYFALCON’ 40

ACM vertical scan mode with radar search line in HUD

Fig. 10-22. ACM Vertical scan pattern in the HUD

SLEWABLE AIR COMBAT MODE (ACM)

Many times in combat you'll find yourself turning toward the direction of a threat, knowing it is nearby, but not quite sure where. When you have already visually acquired the target you can select one of the other ACM scan patterns to point the radar search pattern directly at a specific aircraft to ensure you lock the one you want.When you still want an auto-acquisition mode but also need to sweep a wider area to find someone, it’s time to use ACM Slewable scan.

This scan pattern gives you a search area larger than the other ACM scan patterns, and you can move the volume of airspace the radar is searching to anywhere within the full gimbal limits of the radar.

When you command the Slewable scan pattern from the ACM mode you see “SLEW” displayed on the top of your radar MFD telling you the radar entered the Slewable scan mode (figure 10-23). The radar now begins a search pattern 20 degrees high and 60 degrees wide out to 10 nm.The slewable search pattern is “space stabilized,” keeping the long axis of the scan level with the horizon. This allows you to keep the radar’s scan searching in the

desired direction while making a turn or continuing to maneuver the aircraft.

ACM slewable scan Antenna scan center symbol

pio) pat) pd CTRL

13% swap |

Elevation coverage at present slew position

Fig. 10-23. ACM Slewable scan pattern in the MFD

In ACM Slewable scan mode, your radar cursor control (or the keyboard arrow keys) are used to control where the radar directs the scan pattern. Take a look at figure 10-24 for a description of the search area. You can now slew the radar’s search pattern toward the direction of a threat and acquire a radar lock without having to point the aircraft in that direction. Or, if you are already turning that way, you can lead your turn with the radar's search pattern and get that radar lock more quickly. Slew- ing the radar cursor left and right moves the search pattern to the left or right of the nose. As you slew up and down, rather than changing the position of the radar cursor in range as in RWS, you are actually moving the search pattern up and down in eleva- tion.

The F-16 provides some cues in the HUD and MFD to help you slew the search pattern and make sure you have your AN/APG-68 radar looking in the right direction. In the HUD, the aircraft displays aFALCON’ 40

The search pattern of the radar can be moved around to search any 20° x 60° area within the gimbal limits of the radar.

Fig. 10-24, ACM Slewable scan pattern

slew reference cross” located just below the aircraft boresight cross. A “slew circle” initially shows up in the middle of the reference cross (shown in figure 10-25).This symbol gives you a reference for the center of the scan pattern while the reference cross gives you a guideline for where to position the search pattern to make sure your AN/APG-68 radar looks in the right location for the threat.

Aircraft boresight cross

ACM slew circle Slew reference cross

Fig. 10-25. HUD view of ACM Slewable scan mode

Center of A/C Boresight

Horizon Stabilized

The position and elevation of the scan pattern are also displayed on the MFD, but in a different for- mat than the symbology in the HUD (refer back to figure 10-23). As a depiction of the 60-degree hori- zontal limits of the radar’s azimuth coverage, the display shows the same vertical goal post lines as it does with +30 degrees in RWS.The center of the pattern is represented by the “antenna scan center symbol.”

The most important information displayed here, however, is the elevation of the radar’s search cover- age. The two numbers on the right side of the antenna scan center symbol show the maximum and minimum altitudes, in thousands of feet, that are covered by the radar with the current position of the search pattern. This gives you an idea of how high or low the radar is looking. If you have an idea about what altitude the threat is at, glance down at your MFD and make sure that altitude is being cov- ered by the search pattern.

As you move the ACM Slewable scan around with your radar cursors (or arrow keys), notice the relationship between the position of the slew circle on the slew reference cross and the actual search pattern depicted in the MFD. Centering the slew cir- cle on the horizontal line of the slew reference cross will center the radar’s search in elevation relative to the nose of your aircraft.e

FALCON’ 40

REALISTIC AN/APG-68 AIR-TO-GROUND RADAR MODES

The AN/APG-68 radar can also create a picture from radar returns reflecting off terrain features and objects on the ground. The basic mode for locating fixed targets on the ground is ground map (GM) mode.When you are looking for moving targets, the radar can highlight them on the ground with the ground moving target (GMT) mode. SEA mode is optimized for locating targets on the water.

Ground Radar Displays

Instead of the B scope display used in air-to-air modes, the air-to-ground radar modes use a pie- wedge display that gives you a satellite’s-eye view of the radar’s scan across the ground in front of your jet. Your position is the bottom of the pie wedge that represents the limits of the radar returns.

Cr

Range scale

60° Azimuth scan

ATTITUDE INDICATION

The artificial horizon marker in the center of the dis- play gives the same indication as with the air-to-air radar modes.

RADAR RETURNS

Different terrain features and objects reflect radar energy differently. In GM mode, the radar builds a picture from the radar returns as it scans across the ground. In GMT and SEA modes, basic radar returns from objects are displayed as small squares. Their position on the display indicates their left or right orientation from your nose, as well as their distance from you. The squares will appear to move as your aircraft moves in relationship to the targets.

RANGE SCALE

The range scale indicates the range of the outer cir- cle in nautical miles. This can be set at a 10, 20, 40, or 80 nm presentation. Click the corresponding OSBs to increase or decrease the range, or press and

(F3 J.

Cee

Radar cursor

Freeze

Snow plow Cursor zero Steerpoint is the

point of interest for the system

| ae Lest msty oleae!

Fig. 10-26. Ground radar display with GM selectedFALCON’ 40

The range of a target is represented by the dis- tance of that target return from the bottom of the radar display, relative to the set range scale. In the 20,40 and 80 nm air-to-ground display, you'll see three concentric range arcs spaced equidistantly from the bottom of the MFD.These represent 25, 50, and 75 percent of the range scale setting. If the range is set to 10 nm, there is only one arc halfway between the top and bottom of the display, repre- senting 50 percent of the range.

AZIMUTH SCAN

Azimuth is measured in degrees off the nose of the aircraft. The azimuth selection is displayed with an “A’and a number under it to indicate the width of the radar scan on either side of the nose. In air-to- ground mode, the azimuth scan is always fixed at +60 degrees. The radar azimuth marker (the ’T” symbol) moves across the bottom of the radar dis- play indicating the position of the radar at that moment. |n air-to-ground mode, the radar only uses a one-bar elevation scan.

RADAR CURSORS

The radar cursors in a ground mode consist of cross hairs. The tick marks on these lines are the expan- sion cue markers that indicate how much area would be viewed when expanding the field of view. These radar cursors automatically appear over the current steerpoint. If a steerpoint is outside the lim- its of the radar scan, the cursors are placed against the edges of the MFD.

FIELD OF VIEW (FOV) OPTIONS The air-to-ground radar can“zoom in” the picture with several FOV options using (F9 }. * NRM (Normal view):This is the normal 1:1 pic- ture of the radar return.

* EXP (Expanded view): Select EXP to fill the radar display with the area within the expan- sion cue markers. This expands the view from NRM by 4:1.

* DBS1 (Doppler Beam Sharpening mode 1): This does not expand the view any more, but does improve the resolution of the picture by 8:1 over NRM.

* DBS2 (Doppler Beam Sharpening mode 2):This expands the view by 8:1 over NRM and gives a 64:1 increase in resolution over NRM.

1/4 mile reference mark

Expanded field of view

Fig. 10-27. EXP, DBS1, and DBS2 field of view options for GM radar

Only GM mode has all four options. GMT and SEA use only NRM and EXP.When you change theFALCON’40

FOV to EXP or DBS, the cursor position is fixed in the center of the display. When you slew, the pic- ture moves underneath the cursors. A thin refer- ence cross appears to indicate the actual azimuth and range of where the radar is actually pointing in relation to your position.

QUARTER MILE SCALE REFERENCE

Whenever you are in any expanded FOV options, a horizontal line is displayed in the upper-left corner. This gives you a reference for one-quarter mile (1,500 feet) of area across the picture. Its size will change in relationship to the scale of the display as you change the FOV.

STEERPOINT MODE

Except in the special Snowplow mode, the ground radar modes initialize by pointing at a steerpoint and scanning an area of ground around that point. By slewing the cursors you can move the radar pic- ture around on the ground.

If the steerpoint or location of the cursor posi- tion is outside the radar scan limits or beyond the range scale of the radar, you will get a completely blank scope with the radar cursors pegged against the sides of the radar closest to the steerpoint. As the area of ground the radar is trying to scan comes into or out of the radar’s scan limits you will see a partial picture displayed.

SNOWPLOW (SP) MODE

This mode de-couples the radar from the current steerpoint. The radar will simply scan ahead of the aircraft with a +60-degree azimuth scan. Use this if you are looking for ground targets of opportunity not near any programmed steerpoints. Use the arrow keys to move the radar cursors around.

Toggle Snowplow mode by pressing and SP will display in the MFD. Figure 10-28 shows the SP mode with a ground target locked up.

RADAR LOCK

To lock up a target, place the cross hairs over the target and designate a target. When a target is locked up, a diamond appears around the target return on the radar display. The radar is now in its “fixed target track” (FTT) mode (shown in figure 10-28).

ae

Several air-to-ground weapons can be automat- ically slaved to the target, such as the Maverick, the targeting pod for LGBs, and the HARM.

Target diamond on designated target

ria ori

Cts OT

Snow Plow mode

Fig. 10-28. SP mode with target locked up

OVERRIDE (OVRD)

Override function puts the radar into standby mode and stops it from emitting for defensive pur- poses.

FREEZE (FZ)

This freezes the current radar picture and stops radar emissions. Although the picture is not updated, a“T” symbol appears to represent your current position. Select this mode with the adjacent

OSB or with (F10).

CURSOR ZERO (CZ)

The Cursor Zero function erases any slew that you may have put into the system by moving the radar cursors around, either returning them to the last steerpoint (if you are in Steerpoint mode) or back to the center (if you are in SP mode). Toggle cursor zero with (HiFALCON’ 40

STEERPOINT (STP)

Press the steerpoint OSB to force the cursors to the current steerpoint. If the steerpoint is outside of 60- degree azimuth or beyond the range of the radar, the cursors will be pegged at the edge of the MFD. The STP label highlights when the steerpoint is selected.

RADAR GAIN CONTROLS

You can adjust the “brightness” of the picture with your gain control. Press (SH adjust your radar picture.

Ground Map (GM) Mode

Use this mode for targeting stationary objects on the ground, like buildings, bridges, or airfields. The radar is able to break these objects out from the general ground return and can lock on the stronger target returns. From the cursor position at the cur- Sa rent steerpoint, slew the radar cursors over a target you wish to lock up. Designate the target and a dia- mond will appear over the target, indicating your radar is now in FTT.

Ground Moving Target (GMT) Mode

This mode recognizes objects on the ground that are moving. Use this mode to lock objects like tanks and trucks. The radar symbology is similar to GM. The “picture” now displays squares for identified moving objects instead of a map of the ground (See figure 10-29).

SEA Mode

SEA mode is designed to find ships at sea by filter- ing the radar returns generated by the waves in the ocean. This mode works the same as GMT mode.

ELECTRONIC COUNTER- MEASURES (ECM)

jamming. Aircraft using self-protection jamming will display as an X symbol on the radar scope, posi- tioned at the estimated range and azimuth of the jamming signal (see figure 10-30).

Cae

| ete Nental Ls

Fig. 10-29.GMT mode

ECM jamming received from contact

Most combat aircraft carry ECM pods that jam enemy radar signals from air-to-air and air-to- ground radars. In Falcon 4.0, the Realistic avionics mode is the only radar mode that is affected by

Jamming received but radar burned through and locked-on

Fig. 10-30. Radar display with ECM detectedFALCON’ 40

When jamming is present, you will not be able to lock the target on the radar until the radar can “burn through’ the jamming signal. This happens when the power of the F-16 radar overcomes the

ae power of the jamming signal, allowing the radar to see the target.

When you burn through to the target, the X symbol will remain on the scope and a small target square will appear in the middle of the X. You can now lock onto the square and track the target. All of the normal Realistic mode radar symbology will be displayed, but the X will remain as long as the jam- ming is present.

CONCLUSION

As a beginning Falcon driver who wants to get in and go, you can use scaled down versions of the AN/APG-68 radar with the Easy and Simplified options.When you're ready for graduate level radar work, take some time to master the concepts in basic radar operation. The more confident you are at handling the realistic version of the AN/APG-68 radar, the more confidence you will have in target- ing your enemy for the kill.

wreAir-to-Air Missiles

1 a Owe COTO a yD

a

In This Chapter

od od bs *

Air-to-Air Weapon Symbology AIM-120 AMRAAM

AIM-7 Sparrow

AIM-9 Sidewinder

OVERVIEW

Today, F-16 pilots take their air-to-air missiles for granted.

They never think twice about carrying a full compliment of weapons, especially radar missiles like the AMRAAM that can reach out and touch someone at beyond visual range (BVR). This wasn’t always the case. It took a long time for the air-to-air Mafia (namely, the F-15 community) to accept the fact that the Falcon could be an air-to-air asset and not just get in their way.

Once you've spent some time flying the Falcon, you might even find yourself taking your missiles for granted. Just remember that when you fly a real mission in the dynamic combat operations of a campaign, you won't have an unlimited arsenal of missiles to use. This means every shot must count. When you “drop the hammer” and let

that missile fly, you need to make sure it will hit its mark.

In this chapter, we cover a no-nonsense description of missile symbology in your avionics displays so that you'll know when you've met valid launch criteria for shooting that missile. You will see any combination of AIM- 120 AMRAAMs (advanced medium range air-to-air missile), AIM-7 Sparrows, and AIM-9 Sidewinders in the Falcon.

AIR-TO-AIR WEAPON SYMBOLOGY

The HUD and MFDs share some common symbology that applies to all air-to-air missiles with just a few varia- tions.

Missile Modes

There are two methods available for calling up an air-to- air missile. You can call up the Dogfight and Missile Over- ride modes directly, or you can cycle air-to-air weapons by toggling & . You will see a description of the current mode dis-

played in the bottom lower corner of the HUD. For air-to- air missile modes, this could be any of the modes listed below.

* DGFT for the dogfight mode * MRM for medium-range missile mode * SRM for the short-range missile mode

If you cycle through the available A-A weapons, the stores management system (SMS) will select the appro- priate missile mode for each type of missile as you toggle through the stations on the aircraft. In front of the mode description is a number indicating how many missiles are available for that particular mode. You can see exactly which missile is selected by looking at the SMS page on your MFD.

In figure 11-1, for example, you can see in the HUD that MRM mode is selected. From the SMS page you can see that you currently have an AIM-120 AMRAAM on sta- tion 2 selected as the current missile to be launched. The number 2 in front of MRM in the HUD tells you there areFALCON’40

2 medium range missiles (either AIM-7s or AIM- 120s) left.In the case of this example, the SMS page tells you these two missiles are AMRAAMs.

2 missiles remaining in the MRM mode

Radar MFD Missile on aircraft SMS MFD shows repeats the DLZ station 2 (highlighted) AMRAAMSas the from the HUD will be the next remaining 2 MRMs missile to launch

Fig. 11-1. HUD and SMS page air-to-air missile display with MRM selected

DOGFIGHT MODE

When you select dogfight weapons mode by press- ing (0), you call up both the gunsight and AIM-9 Sidewinder symbology (if these missiles are on the aircraft). This is the only way to get gun and missile symbology at the same time, so it’s a useful option for a close-in visual fight. This mode is selected when you see DGFT in the HUD.

MEDIUM-RANGE MISSILE (MRM) MODE

This mode represents air-to-air missiles that can be launched at a long range from the threat. For the Falcon, this includes AMRAAMs and Sparrows. These missiles don’t have the “longest” range of any missile that’s built (which is the reason for calling this the “medium” range missile mode), but they can hold their own against any threat we face today.

As you cycle through air-to-air missiles by press- ing ENTER), the SMS knows that when you select an AIM-120 or AIM-7, you need the MRM mode. You can go to this directly by selecting the MRM mode with (M).MRM is displayed in the HUD as the cur- rent mode with the appropriate missile selected.

SHORT-RANGE MISSILE (SRM) MODE

This mode is used for the missiles of the dogfight- ing arena. For the Falcon, this means the AIM-9 Sidewinder. If you cycle through the aircraft stations and select any AIM-9 missile, the SMS automatically gives you SRM mode. You will see this displayed in the HUD, along with the number of missiles avail- able for this mode. Remember that you can also select an AIM-9 in DGFT mode.

Dynamic Launch Zone (DLZ)

The DLZ is the symbology that tells you whether you are within range to shoot the missile currently selected. This is a scale that appears on the right side of the HUD and radar MFD, called the DLZ bracket. The DLZ will function the same for all air- to-air missiles. Refer to figure 11-2 for the following description.

The top of the bracket represents the maximum range from which you can launch the missile. This is called Rmax1.The very bottom of the bracket is the closest range from which you can fire, called Rmin1. These outer and inner ranges simply tell you the kinematic capability of the missile. This means that a missile launched inside this window at a non- maneuvering target will have enough energy to reach the target. Now what happens when the tar- get maneuvers?

On the DLZ scale there is an inner bracket that represents a maneuver zone. The top of this inner staple is called Rmax2, and the bottom, Rmin2. These second max and min ranges represent the range you could launch the missile against a maneuvering target and still have a high probabil- ity of kill (high P,). Rmax2 isn’t quite as far as Rmax1, and Rmin2 isn't quite as close as Rmin1. This is also called the “heart of the envelope,” because a target will have a tough time getting away from a missile launched in this window, even with some evasive maneuvers.FALCON'40 ©

Caret indicates your present position for the shot

Closure with the target

Fig. 11-2. Dynamic launch zone (DLZ) description

Next to the DLZ scale is the range caret repre- senting your range from the target in relation to the DLZ.This is an arrow pointing to the right that slides up and down the left side of the DLZ. If the caret is above the DLZ, you are completely out of

range for the selected missile. If the caret is pointing

between Rmax1 and Rmax2, then you are at a range inside of Rmaxt1, but still outside of Rmax2. When the caret is pointing between Rmax2 and Rmin2, you are in the maneuver zone.When the caret drops below the Rmin1 range, you are too close for the missile to make it to the target.

The DLZ is called a“dynamic” launch zone because the actual ranges for launching a missile could change depending on how the target maneuvers. Therefore, the launch zone indications need to change with the dynamics of the situation. For example, a target coming directly at you would show a much greater maximum range on the DLZ than a target going away from you.

To get DLZ information displayed, you must have the target locked up on the radar. The fire con-

trol computer (FCC) uses this information to com- pute the ranges for the DLZ.

Missile Reticle

Another part of the HUD symbology present in all air-to-air missile modes is the missile reticle. This is simply a circle displayed in the HUD that tells you an air-to-air missile mode is selected, along with some attack information, when available. The same symbology is used for each type of missile, medium range or short range.

AMRAAMs and Sparrows display a larger circle in the middle of the HUD.When you have a radar con- tact, you'll see aspect information from a caret that moves around the outside of the circle. If the top of the circle represents the nose of the aircraft, the arrow, or aspect caret, will point in the direction the target is heading in relation to your nose.

Target Missilediamond designatorbox Aspect caret Missile reticle

Medium range missile mode

Fig. 11-3. MRM reticle

Short-range missiles, which for the Falcon con- sist of two versions of the Sidewinder, display a smaller circle in the HUD. Because the system assumes you will be using SRM mode at close ranges, the SRM missile reticle gives you a range indication on the reticle.<—e

FALCON’ 40

As you get within 2 nm (or 12,000 ft.) of a target locked on radar, the circle of the missile reticle becomes a range scale. The line making up the cir- cle will slide counter-clockwise around from the twelve o'clock position. The end of the line repre- sents the range to the target. If you see three-quar- ters of a circle with the end of the line at the nine o'clock position, the target is 9,000 ft. away. Half of a circle would mean the target is 1 nm, or 6,000 ft., away. In figure 11-4, the circle is about eight o'clock or 8,000 ft. This matches the radar range to the tar- get that shows 1.4 nm.

Range indicator (approximately Missile Target Missile 8,000ftor1.4nm) reticle —-DesignatorBox diamond

a

Short range missile mode

et

ie

Radar range (1.4nm) DLZ

Fig. 11-4. SRM reticle

In dogfight weapons mode, you use the SRM reticle with one variation. The circle will function as both a target locator “box” around the target, and a missile reticle with a range scale. This means the missile reticle with DGFT selected will follow the target and not remain in the middle of the HUD like MRM and SRM.

Missile Diamond

An air-to-air missile also has a diamond symbol rep- resenting the position of the “missile seeker,” or where the missile is looking. This symbol will be

either in the middle of the reticle (when no target is locked up), or in the TD box (indicating that the missile seeker is looking at the same target as the radar). For medium-range missiles, the diamond is smaller with tick marks at each corner.When you are in range to shoot a missile, the missile diamond flashes.

AIM-120 AMRAAM

This missile is affectionately known as the “Slam- mer’ by its users. The greatest advantage of the AMRAANM is its launch-and-leave capability. This means the missile’s own radar can find and track a target at a specific point on the way to the inter- cept. The radar from the aircraft points the missile in the right direction and tells it where to look. Once the AMRAAM is close enough to find and track it, you can go on your merry way to engage another threat.

SRM reticle in DGFT mode

Missile reticle shows approximately 3,000 ft.range from the target

(radar range shows 3,600 ft.)

Fig. 11-5. SRM reticle

AIM-120 Countdown Cue

In addition to the standard DLZ, the AMRAAM also includes a countdown cue, displayed directly under the DLZ.This is important because you want toFALCON’40

know when the missile is still relying on guidance from the aircraft and when the missile has gone autonomous. As long as the missile is using the air- craft information, you will see an “A” followed by a number. This is the time, in seconds, remaining before the missile can continue on its own (autonomously).When the “A” time counts down to 0, another countdown begins with a’T” time, repre- senting the time left until the missile impacts the target.

If you launch the AMRAAM when it is already close enough to find the target itself, you will only see aT” countdown time. The missile is already inside the range at which it can go autonomous, so the “A” countdown is already complete.

If you launch a second AMRAAM, the count- down for the missile in flight will drop down and a new countdown will appear under the DLZ (see fig- ure 11-6).In this example, the first AMRAAM launched has already gotten close enough to become autonomous (T13).It has 13 more seconds to impact at the present conditions. The second missile launched has more time to go. It still has 27 seconds of flight time remaining before it goes autonomous (A27).

TOF for missile

TOF for the previous missile

Fig. 11-6. AMRAAM DLZ with one missile in flight and another ready to launch

AMRAAM Tactical Considerations

The Slammer has an option that other missiles don't. If you don’t want to hang around the fight, or if there are other bandits to engage, watch the mis- sile countdown below“A0" to aT” countdown. At this point, you know the missile should be able to make it on its own, so you can either leave the fight or lock up and engage another target.

The target could maneuver at any time during the missile time-of-flight (TOF), so if you want to be sure the AMRAAM makes it to impact, you might want to continue tracking that target until you see the explosion. If the missile doesn’t hack the inter- cept, you can follow it up with another shot to fin- ish the job.

——__—

FALCON TRAINING: refer to Training Mission 16 in the game manual for additional information about the AMRAAM and a description of the AIM-120 training mis-

|

sion in the game.

AIM-7 SPARROW

This radar-guided missile has been around a long time. The biggest difference between the Sparrow and AMRAAM is how the missile guides on a target. The Sparrow doesn't have its own radar, so it must rely on signals from the Falcon’s radar. The missile tracks the radar reflections from your radar bounc- ing off the target. This means that you must keep the target “illuminated” or locked up through the entire TOF of the AIM-7.

AIM-7 Display

The symbology display for the Sparrow is essen- tially the same as the AMRAAM. The time count- down will obviously display only the time to impact and not a countdown to autonomous. Otherwise, the DLZ gives you the same relative information with the same reticle and missile diamond dis- played.xe

FALCON’ 40

If you have both AMRAAMs and Sparrows loaded, you could use either of these missiles in the MRM mode. In this case, you'll have to look down at your SMS page on the MFD to see which missile is currently selected.

Sparrow Employment

The most important thing to remember about the AIM-7 is the fact that you must keep the target locked throughout the missile TOF. If you have to break your radar lock for some reason before the missile impacts, the threat is still out there.

———$__—_—

FALCON TRAINING: use Training

Mission 17 in the game manual to get more information about the AIM-7 and to practice getting the missile all the way to target impact.

AIM-9 SIDEWINDER

The old faithful AIM-9 Sidewinder has undergone many evolutions in its development through the years. You will find two different models of the AIM- 9 still in weapon arsenals. The older AIM-9P can only be launched from a rear aspect. The newer AIM-9M can be launched from any aspects of the target. This means if a target is coming at you, you better be carrying the M model if you want to get a shot off in his face. Otherwise, it will be a long, slow session of BFM around to the bandit’s six o'clock so you can get that “Papa” model Sidewinder off.

AIM-9 Display

The current seeker heads on the AIM-9 can track targets while still on the jet. The FCC knows where the seeker is looking and will display the missile diamond in the HUD at the actual position of the seeker head. The missile seeker is also slaved to the radar. This means that when you have a target locked up, the missile will be looking in the same direction as the radar. This is why you will see the

missile diamond in the radar target locator box (see figure 11-4).

The Sidewinder adds another feature to its dis- play symbology, only it’s not a display. With an AIM- 9 called up and tracking a target, you will hear the missile “growl,” which tells you that it is tracking a target.The stronger the heat source it sees, the stronger the growl.

AIM-9 Employment

Because the Sidewinder tracks the heat source of a target to guide itself to impact, you do not need the radar locked to the target for a successful intercept. However, if you want to use the radar to get the AIM-9 tracking the right target and you want a DLZ display to make sure you are in range for the shot, you'll need a radar lock. After the missile is on its way, it’s “hasta la vista, baby.”

If there are other aircraft nearby to engage, don't worry about that missile after you fire. Get on with killing other threats. If you can afford to hang around, then watch and make sure the missile takes out the target before moving on. If the bandit maneuvered and defeated the shot, then follow it

up with another missile or a gunshot.

FALCON TRAINING: use Training

Mission 15 in the game manual for more information about the AIM-9 and to warm your fingers up for the hunt.

CONCLUSION

To effectively engage the threat in the air-to-air arena, you'll need to be familiar with your weapons. You must know what to do to ensure that each mis- sile can make it to the target successfully so you can start simplifying your problem—the more threats you can eliminate, the less complicated your life becomes._ Air-to-Air Gun Employment

1 oOo es CO) PLY ha WB

2

In This Chapter

CT M8 CTS eS Leder p Falcon Gunsights eT yd) us

INTRODUCTION

~~ You just learned about air-to-air missiles in the Falcon. But let's be honest; every fighter pilot will agree that the real manly weapon for air-to-air is the gun. If this weren't the case, you wouldn’t be reading this chapter in our book. Nine times out of ten, the most tactically smart thing to do is to get the quick kill with a missile and get the hell out of dodge. But then how often have fighter pilots been known to be smart? Stubborn, aggressive, and cunning,

maybe; but smart?

Tactical or not, here are the mechanics of how the 20mm cannon and gunsight symbology work in the Fal- con. This is the same dependable old gun that's been around since the F-104 Starfighter in the 1960s. What have changed are the 20mm round itself and the gunsight used to aim the gun.

GUN THEORY

Displaying a gunsight in the HUD assumes you are trying to aim bullets that are shot from one maneuvering plat- form (your aircraft) at another maneuvering target (your enemy's aircraft). This requires a calculation of bullet tra- jectory along with a prediction of where the target is

going.

Bullet Trajectory

At least the bullet is a simple weapon. Once it leaves the gun barrel, it will fly out in front of you on a predictable flight path. Two forces will primarily affect the bullet tra- jectory: gravity and drag. As it flies through the air, the bullet will get pulled toward the center of the earth by gravity, and it will slow down as it pushes through the air. There are some minor forces acting on the bullet, like the rotation of the gun barrel, but all of these factors are known forces that can easily be calculated by the aircraft computer.

Don't forget that you also have a bullet dispersion pattern of six milliradians. This means that 80 percent of the bullets will hit within a six-foot circle at 1,000 feet. The F-16 cannon, in other words, has a built-in “shotgun type” dispersion pattern that is designed to hit fighter-sized targets.

Target Prediction

The complicated part of the aiming solution is how to deal with a maneuvering target. Because the bullets will travel a certain distance through the sky (from you to the target), you have to predict where the target will be at the time that it takes the bullet to arrive at the target. That is the place you need to be pointing the gun when you fire. If you are pointing the gun directly at or behind the target when you squeeze the trigger, you can see how the bullets will fly behind the target as they reach the range of the target (figure 12-1).FALCON'40

Fig. 12-1. Bullet trajectory leaving the gun

Gunsight Aiming Calculations

The calculations required to aim a gun haven't changed since the first time a gun was fired from an airplane. Instead of using “iron gunsights,” where the pilot had to guess where the bullets would go, we now have dynamic aiming references displayed in the HUD. There is still no way to eliminate the problem of predicting a target's flight path (until we start using a laser), but when certain conditions

PRIMA’S OFFICIAL STRATEGY GUIDE

Nose on or behind a maneuvering target means the bullets will fall behind.

Bullets that reach the target will be the ones fired when your noseis in lead.

are met, you can certainly minimize some variables and get close enough for a kill.

IN LEAD

The biggest factor for calculating an aiming cue is the range to the target. The farther away the target is, the farther you will have to aim out in front of the target. This is called “lead,” depicted in figure 12-1. The closer the target is when you shoot, the less lead you need to have when you pull the trigger. Another factor for calculating lead is the target's line-of-sight rate. This is the term for describing howFALCON’ 40

fast the target is moving across your nose. A target flying straight and level at a low aspect angle requires less lead than a target flying across your nose at a high rate of speed. This high line-of-sight rate, or movement across your canopy, requires you to shoot much farther in front for the bullets to make it to the target's position when the target arrives at the same point, rather than passing harm- lessly behind it.

IN RANGE

Obviously, a bullet can't keep flying forever. It will continue to slow down and continue to drop because of gravity until it hits the ground. The greater the distance the bullet travels, the more its trajectory drops. You must shoot when your aircraft is close enough to the target so that the bullets can make it to the target before gravity significantly alters their trajectory. This is called the max range of the gun, which is effectively about 6,000 ft. for the Falcon's 20mm gun.

IN-PLANE

Plane of motion will be described in greater detail later in chapters 17 and 18. For now, just think of being “in-plane” with the target as getting the gun lined up with the direction that the target is mov- ing. Take skeet shooting, for example. You must be in range close enough for the shot to even reach the pigeon. You also must point the gun out in front of the pigeon, in lead. And finally, your chances of hitting the pigeon are greater when you move the gun in line with the target's flight path. If you were to try to get a hit by moving the shotgun perpendicular to the pigeon’s trajectory, you'd have to be very lucky to get a hit.

As the bandit maneuvers in front of you, he will be flying a particular path through space—a plane of motion. You must align your jet with this flight path to be able to fire the gun in lead and in line with the direction the target is moving. If the target changes planes, then you must adjust to realign with the new plane of motion for the most effective chance at hitting the target.

GUNSIGHT SYMBOLOGY

The HUD still has the “iron cross,” or the point directly off your nose. But the Falcon also has a more sophisticated gunsight mechanization that can get very close to predicting where you will need to point the gun to hit the target.

Gun Cross

The gun cross in the HUD (see figure 12-2) gives you a reference for where the Falcon’s gun is point- ing. The bullets initially travel in the direction of the gun cross when they leave the gun. You could use this as a gunsight, just like the iron cross was used to manually compute a point out in front of the tar- get that would score a hit.

In fact, to be successful with the gun, you'll find yourself relying on your skill at placing the gun cross in front of the target's nose to help you get lined up for the shot.

Aiming Symbology

Without a radar lock, the gunsight symbology in the HUD can only show you the path where the bullets would have traveled through time as if you had been squeezing the trigger. This is a“historical” representation of the bullet flight path based only on conditions of your jet (maneuvers, Gs, and air- speed) while you were shooting or if you had been shooting.

When you get a radar lock, the computer can use the range information from the radar to predict a“pipper,” or a point you can aim at the target that will give you the proper amount of lead for the shot.

FALCON GUNSIGHTS

The following three gunsights are available to help you direct your gun in front of and in line with the target—Lead Computing Optical Sight (LCOS), Enhanced Envelope Gunsight (EEGS), and Snapshot (SNAP). Call up gun modes by selecting dogfight mode with (0) or by cycling through your air-to-air

|a

FALCON’ 40

weapons with ENTER).When you select gun mode, the default gunsight is the EEGS.

Lead Computing Optical Sight (LCOS)

The LCOS gives you an aiming reference that assumes you (the shooter) and the target (the other guy) do not change your flight parameters (air- speed, G, range, etc.) for one bullet's time of flight. What this means is that the LCOS pipper is accurate if you and the target continue flying your present flight path at the same speed during the time it takes for the bullets to get from your gun to the tar- get.

Since most gunshots have a bullet time-of-flight (TOF) between .5 and 1.5 seconds, there could be very little maneuvering happening while you are squeezing the trigger. If the target does not change G or airspeed, or maneuver out-of-plane during this amount of time, the bullets will turn his aircraft into scrap metal.

When you have a radar lock, the fire control computer (FCC) knows the range to the target. The FCC also knows the bullet trajectory based on your airspeed and Gs. Again, the computer assumes the target's parameters will be similar to yours as it computes and displays the aiming symbology.

Essentially, the FCC knows where the bullets will be when they reach the same distance out from your gun as the target's range. This is where it places the LCOS pipper (figure 12-2).In this example, the bullets are reaching 2,500 ft. from your gun behind the target. This means the pilot is not pulling enough lead. In this case, the pilot needs to pull the pipper up to the target, which will move the gun cross far enough out in lead to get bullets to the tar- get's position at the target's range (2,500 ft.).

When you do not have a radar lock, the LCOS assumes a nominal 1,500 ft. target range, and it also assumes the target is pulling the same Gs as the shooter. In other words, it uses your parameters to estimate what the target is doing. If the target just happens to be at 1,500 ft., the pipper should work fine as an aiming reference.What if this is not the range to the target?

If the target is farther than 1,500 ft., putting the pipper on the target will not provide enough lead

to get the bullets to the aircraft. Because they'll have farther to travel, the bullets will fall behind the target.

If the target is closer than 1,500 ft., you'll be pulling too much lead if you put the pipper on the target. Because they'll have less distance to travel, the bullets will pass in front of the target.

The LCOS pipper also indicates target range information on the pipper reticle. This display works the same as the SRM reticle. A range cue points at the clock position that corresponds to the same distance as the target's range in thousands of feet. Figure 12-2, for example, shows the range cue just inside of three o'clock, with a target at 2,500 ft. away.

Boresight cross

LCOS pipper (Gun cross) Range indication

LCOS submode

Radar range display (2,500)

Fig. 12-2. LCOS gunsight

Snapshot

Snapshot is a similar display to LCOS, but provides some additional information. The snapshot line essentially shows an artificial line for where the bul- lets would be flying out of the gun if you were holding down the trigger. This “tracer” line has TOF tick marks at .5, 1.0,and 1.5 seconds. These repre-FALCON’ 40

sent the distance in front of the gun (down the line)

that the bullets would be at those times after leav- ing the gun (see figure 12-3).

With a radar lock, you also get a pipper dis- played on the snapshot line. If the radar is locked to a target at 1,500 ft.and the FCC calculates that the bullet will take 0.8 seconds to travel that distance, it will display a pipper on the snapshot line at that range (between the 0.5 and 1.0 second tick marks).

Without a radar lock, this gunsight also uses an estimated 1,500 ft. range for pipper placement, shown in figure 12-4. Notice the location in the HUD where you normally see the radar range shows a“M 1500.” This tells you the sight is manu- ally set for 1,500 ft.

Pipper at target range Bullet trace line

Snapshot submode

Radar range to target

Fig. 12-3. Snapshot aiming reference witha radar lock

Enhanced Envelope Gunsight (EEGS)

«The EEGS aiming reference (pronounced “eegz") is more than just a historical display of where the bul- lets would have gone. This gunsight actually helps predict where the bandit is going so that you can

more accurately line up the gun as you get ready to pull the trigger.

EEGS SYMBOLOGY

EEGS has one significant advantage over both LCOS or SNAP. Instead of having one aiming point for one particular target range, EEGS gives you an aiming reference for any target range. This is achieved by the EEGS funnel (figure 12-5).

Estimated pipper _Bullettrace line

1 a bevy St SHRP 4g 3b} Ot ae 4

Manual range estimated at 1500'

Fig. 12-4. Snapshot aiming reference without a radar lock

The center of the funnel provides the same information as the bullet trace line in the other gunsights. If the pilot had been pulling the trigger, the bullets would have flown down the middle of the funnel. But this is the historical information you get from any gunsight. The real advantage of the EEGS is its ability to predict where the target is going.

Imagine the funnel as a 3-D shape, like a cone, instead of a flat, 2-D funnel. If you sliced the cone, imagine that each of those slices represents a pip- per at a different range to the target (shown in fig- ure 12-6).What you have with EEGS is a fluid pipper that works at any target range.

“Ssxe

FALCON’ 40

The FCC assumes an average wingspan of 35 ft. to compute the funnel.When the target is closer, the aircraft will appear larger in your HUD. This means the aiming point (or where the pipper would appear) for getting the bullets to the target at that range would be close to the gun cross, requiring little lead. When the target is farther away, it will appear smaller and the aiming point would be farther away from the gun cross, requiring much more lead.

EEGS funnel Gun cross

Radar range to target (2,700')

Fig. 12-5. EEGS aiming reference with a radar lock

EEGS FIRING SOLUTION

The width of the funnel is designed to match the target wingspan at a point where you would have just the right lead to shred the target with 20mm rounds. In other words, when the target is in the middle of the funnel with the wingtips touching the edges of the funnel, you essentially have the “pipper” on the target (see example A in figure 12- 7).Pulling the trigger will put the bullets through the target's position at that range.

____— Gun solution (or pipper) fora target at close range.

~~ Gun solution

—— for targets at

greater distances requiring more lead.

Target too far away with not enoughlead—bullets would drop behind.

Targetis at the right range for this amount of lead—bullets would impact the target.

™ Targetis too close for this amount of lead—bullets will fly in front of the target.

Fig. 12-7. Examples of not enough lead, a valid solution, and too much lead

When the target is close, the wingspan will appear

wider, and less lead is necessary to get the bullets

to the target. This means the target will be closer to

the gun cross where the funnel is wider. If the tar-

get is far away, it will be smaller and willneed tobe farther down the funnel to find itself in a gun solu- tion.In other words, you will be pulling more lead

with the target farther down the funnel at greater distances.FALCON’40

If you do not pull enough lead, the target will be smaller than the width of the funnel and the bullets will pass behind. (Example A in figure 12-7.) If you pull too much lead, the target will be farther down from the gun cross where it will be wider than the funnel, like example C in figure 12-7. In this case, the bullets would pass in front of the target.

What happens when you're shooting at a target with a significantly different wingspan than what EEGS has programmed? Obviously, the width of the funnel would no longer be a good reference. How- ever, the funnel will still help you line up with the target's flight path, and the way you employ the gunsight will make up for the differences in scale.

GUN EMPLOYMENT

This discussion will use the EEGS as an example, since this is the most effective gunsight we have in the Falcon. Let's first review a valid gun solution. You will put bullets through your enemy when you fired in range, the gun was out in lead, and you were lined up with the target's flight path, or plane of motion.

Tracking Gunshot

First, you must position yourself to take a gunshot. This might require some basic fighter maneuvers (BFM) on your part, or you just might get lucky and have a MiG show up in front of your nose. Getting to this position is covered in depth in Chapter 18, but here are a few techniques. If some of this does- n't quite make sense, come back to it after you've gotten through the explanation on BFM.

Be careful not to commit yourself to a gunshot too soon or too far away. Remember that a gun solution requires lead, and if you go for lead too far out, you could have the bandit turning into you and stuffing you before you have a chance to kill him. The ideal range to think about guns is anywhere out to about 4,500 ft.

Begin by maneuvering to put the target in the “mouth” of the funnel. Another reference you can use is putting the gun cross right in front of the tar- get's nose. This will look something like example A in figure 12-7.

Next, rotate your lift vector to align your plane of motion with the bandit’s. This means that when

you pull, your nose will track along the same flight path as the target. The funnel will naturally help you do this.

With the target sitting in the mouth of the fun- nel, gradually pull your nose in front of the target to pull his aircraft slowly down the funnel. Notice how doing this keeps you in line with the target. As you begin pulling, squeeze the trigger.

From what we've already discussed, you know the first bullets to leave the gun will drop behind the target. As you continue to pull the target air- craft down the funnel, however, you will eventually get bullets to the target. Now you know why it doesn't matter if the wingspan doesn’t match exactly. You want a lethal spray of bullets along the flight path of the target rather than a tight group- ing that misses completely (figure 12-8). If you pull the target down the funnel to the point of example Cin figure 12-7, and you really want to nail the cof- fin shut, ease off on your pull and let the target fly back into some more bullets.

a

Atightly grouped miss

Fig. 12-8. The effective gunshot

No Lock EEGS Shots

Another advantage of the EEGS is its effectiveness against targets even when you don't have a radar lock. You can use the EEGS aiming references thede

FALCON’ 40

same way we described above with results just as lethal.

When you do have the EEGS called up without a radar lock, MRGS (“multiple reference gunsight”) lines appear at the bottom of the EEGS display. These lines are used specifically to help you align with a target that is turning into you when you're coming in for a quick snapshot.

Use these lines by first pulling enough lead to put your target down at the bottom of the HUD, and get yourself lined up so that the target's fuse- lage is in line with the MRGS lines.When the length of the target aircraft is the same size as the length of the MRGS lines, then ease off and let the target fly toward the gun cross. As you do, start squeezing the trigger and use the funnel to keep the target lined up. Essentially, you are letting the target fly backward up the funnel into the bullets.

Manual EEGSfunnel — Guncross

ie

| B)

SS x a

MRGS lines

Fig. 12-9. EEGS aiming reference with MRGS lines and no radar lock

FALCON TRAINING refer to

Training Mission 14 in the game manual for more information about gun employment.

CONCLUSION

Use this information to fine-tune your marksman- ship. The Falcon gun can be lethal in the right hands.When nothing else is working, your life may just depend on proficient gun skills.Unguided Weapons ae a a CHAPTER

5:

In This Chapter

Mode Selection

Continuously Computed Release Point (CCRP) Continuously Computed Impact Point (CCIP) Dive Toss (DTOS)

Litela (aa eye (3

RIK

INTRODUCTION

Otherwise known as “dumb bombs,” the unguided weapons in the Falcon’s arsenal include every weapon that leaves the aircraft with no further guidance to get to the target. Your aircraft avionics provide aiming references to release the weapon; after it leaves the aircraft, only the weapon's ballistic characteristics will carry it to the tar- get—you must aim your system at the right target.

You shouldn’t have too many excuses for not being able to do this, because the Falcon has three different delivery modes for releasing free-falling bombs. With continuously computed release point (CCRP,) you simply fol- low steering cues to line up with a planned target in your aircraft system. You can use this mode to “loft” weapons into a target, or you can simply fly straight and level overhead. The aircraft computer determines when to release the bombs for you. Continuously computed impact point (CCIP) is a visual bombing mode that displays a release point where the bombs should impact. Pickle off the weapons when this point is on the target, and your enemy will have reason to worry. Dive toss (DTOS) is another visual bombing mode that lets you slew an impact point over a target that you can see. The system then gives you a vertical steering bar to line up the bombs with your desig- nated target.

Free-falling bombs aren't the only unguided weapons at your disposal. The Falcon weapons system also includes a rocket delivery mode and air-to-ground strafe. Both are “point and shoot” weapons. After they leave the jet they go where you pointed them.

Unguided weapons include ordnance like general-purpose bombs and cluster munitions. Most of these weapons have similar trajectories as far as the pilot is concerned. Any of the three delivery modes can be used to drop these weapons, and the delivery mode symbology remains essentially the same. There will be some consider- ations for stores management system (SMS) settings that you can change for each weapon.

In subsequent chapters, you'll learn about precision guided munitions (PGM). This ordnance can be guided with pinpoint accuracy all the way to target impact. So why use dumb bombs? Because they're cheap! Many of the targets you'll go after in a war can be destroyed by massive quantities of inexpensive dumb bombs. So, you better get proficient at dropping these things on target because you won't have the luxury of using PGM on every mis- sion. For the Falcon driver, this means you need to “put the thing on the thing.”ee

FALCON’ 40

MODE SELECTION

The A-G delivery mode is primarily tied to the weapons loaded on the aircraft. If you have several different A-G stores loaded, you can tell which SMS. Weapon (WPN) page you are looking at by the weapon mnemonic on the top right side of the MFD.1In figure 13-1 you see the WPN page for 2MK84. Press to toggle through each weapon loaded and call up the appropriate deliv- ery mode.

CCRP delivery mode selected

A-Gweapon Single or selected _ pair option!

INY GNTL

ROY

AP FcR om)

ae b Pua ig rte WPNpageoftheSMS Ripple quantity Bomb spacing

Fig. 13-1. SMS WPN page

The A-G attack mode for any unguided muni- tions includes the CCRP, CIP, and DTOS submodes. Toggling to the rocket WPN page gives you rocket (RCKT) delivery mode. Toggle to the GUN, and strafe (STRF) mode comes up.

For your avionics setup in surface attack roles, you'll want the A-G radar mode and SMS Weapon page (labeled “WPN’ at the bottom) displayed on your MFDs. Most F-16 pilots are in the habit of using the left MFD for radar work and the right MFD for weapons.

Toggle (T)and (J) until you have a radar and SMS page displayed on your MFDs. Cycle until you have the GM A-G radar called up. Cycle

until you see the WPN page for the bombs you want to drop. Now you're ready to

pound some mud. Just press ("to toggle through the weapons delivery submodes of CCIP, CCRP, and DTOS.

If you prefer, refer to Chapter 8 for how to use the OSBs to select the appropriate MFD pages. From the FCR Menu page, select GM radar with OSB-6. From the SMS menu page select A-G with OSB-8. From the WPN page, pressing OSB-6 toggles through your available weapons and OSB-2 toggles through the CCIP CCRP, and DTOS submodes.

CONTINUOUSLY COMPUTED RELEASE POINT (CCRP)

This mode is closely tied to your A-G radar and air- craft system. The fire control computer (FCC) com- putes the release point for the bombs and steers you over the target. Because the FCC uses your air- craft system to determine the impact point, you don't need to see the target; this is how CCRP came to be referred to as the “blind bombing” mode. You can, however, use CCRP to help you find a target and then switch to a visual bombing mode to drop the iron.

TIP eEvenif you plan on using a f visual attack mode, start with CCRP to help find the target, and then switch sub- modes for the delivery.

Computed Aiming Reference

The FCC uses the position of the A-G radar cursors as the impact point for its calculations. If the A-G radar cursor is still tied to your selected steerpoint, this will be the target reference. If you have slewed the cursor or locked up a ground target, the FCC will calculate the bomb trajectory to this point.FALCON’ 40

CCRP Bombing Triangle

The “bombing triangle” for a weapon delivery describes the precise trajectory a bomb will follow as it falls to the ground. This must include weapon ballistics, wind, and delivery parameters. Figure 13-2 shows a bombing triangle for a level CCRP delivery. The FCC knows the ballistics of the bombs because those specific weapons have been loaded

into the aircraft SMS. It gets the winds at your pre- sent altitude from INS information. It knows the position of the radar cursors and knows the air- speed and altitude of your aircraft. From this infor- mation, the FCC can figure out a trajectory for the bombs, but because your altitude and airspeed may change as you approach the target, the FCC must continuously compute the release point. Now you know how CCRP got its name!

Fig. 13-2. CCRP Bombing Triangle

CCRP Symbology

When you select the CCRP submode,“CCRP" is dis- played in the lower-left corner of the HUD (figure 13-3). Of all the delivery submodes, CCRP provides the most information to help you find the target. This includes steering cues, target location, distance to the target, and release cues.

STEERING GUIDANCE TO THE TARGET

The primary identifying feature of this mode is the vertical steering line that extends from top to bot- tom in the HUD.When you turn to line up your flight path marker (FPM) directly over this steering line (as in figure 13-3), you'll be flying toward the target and will be aligned with the release point that will put the bombs on the impact point.

HUD TARGET SYMBOLOGY

If the target is in the HUD field of view (FOV), the target designator box (or“TD box") will be sitting over the target. If the target is outside the HUD FOV, the target locator line will point in the shortest direction to the TD box. Additionally, the bearing to the target, in degrees off your nose, will be dis- played. In figure 13-4, the target is 62 degrees to the right. Notice how the CCRP steering line is deflected to the side of the HUD closest to the target, and the radar cursors are offset toward the target as well.

BOMB RANGE INDICATION (BOMBING DLZ) When CCRP mode is selected, a“bombing DLZ” appears at the right side of the HUD (figure 13-5). The range cue next to the DLZ bracket indicates your range to the target, rounded to the nearestFALCON 40 EZR aa seeey

mile. The top of the bracket indicates the max range of the bomb trajectory. The tick mark in the middle

of the bracket displays your release point at current flight conditions. Target displaced Targetlocatorline Steering line 62 degrees off your nose pointingtotheright tothe right

To reach the maximum trajectory of the bombs, you would need to pull up and “loft” them into the target. Lofting bombs is like“lobbing” them up into the air at the target instead of just letting them drop off while in level flight. The longest trajectory you can establish is a 45-degree loft. If you smoothly pull the nose up the steering line with about 3-4 Gs when you first reach the max range cue, you'll hit the release point in a 45-degree climb.

CRP Target —_‘Flight path marker delivery mode steering line on the steering line

tH tN He

Radar cursor displaced to the right

Fig. 13-4. CCRP symbology when the target is outside the HUD FOV

Steerpointdiamond = Targetdesignator Range to target (TD) box

Fig. 13-3. CCRP HUD symbology lined up with the Range cue

target

RELEASE SYMBOLOGY

As you follow the steering to the target, here is the Max range indication release symbology you'll see for bombs. A small Somme — release point

horizontal tick mark that slides down the steering line has a dual purpose; first it provides another “max range cue,” then it serves as the “release cue.” NM from target As you approach the CCRP the tick mark moves down the steering line toward the flight path marker.

Fig. 13-5. Bombing DLZJust prior to reaching max range, a circle appears in the middle of the HUD. This reticle is steady at first (as a“get ready” signal), and then it flashes when you reach the max range trajectory of the bombs. This happens when the max range cue (tick mark on the steering line) reaches the flight path marker.

When this happens, the tick mark will reset above on the steering line as a release cue. As you continue following the steering line to the target, the release cue will slide down the steering line again.When the tick mark reaches the flight path marker, you are at the release point. If you are hold- ing the pickle button down (or what is now the “consent to release” button), the bombs will come off.

Figure 13-6 gives you an overview of how this happens.

RANGE TO TARGET

Your distance from the target is displayed in the lower-right corner of the HUD.In CCRP mode, your distance counts down by tenths of a mile to pro- vide a more precise range to the target for your attack. In figure 13-3, for example, you are 5.2 miles from the target.

Weapon Release

An important point to remember about CCRP mode is that you do not pickle the bombs off when you push the pickle button. Instead, you only “con- sent to release.” This means you must hold down the pickle button as you fly through the release cue to allow the bombs to come off. The FCC will calcu- late exactly when to release the bombs—just fly the steering line and hold the button.

BOMB RANGE

Bomb range is the distance the bomb will travel from release to impact. Airspeed, altitude, dive angle, and bomb type affect the range. These are the factors that the FCC considers when computing the release point. For some weapons, the bomb range may be several miles from the target. This means you must line up with the steering line early and get ready to hold the pickle button down before you reach the release point.

FALCON’ 40

TIP with low-drag weapons at << high-altitude deliveries, you will have a long bomb range. Give yourself plenty of room to get stabilized on the steering line.

CCRP Delivery Profiles

CCRP lets you drop bombs any way you like. Think about what will be the easiest way to follow that steering line. One method is from a level delivery, called a“sensor level delivery” (SLD) because you use your radar “sensor” to point to the target. The other method is the loft delivery.

SENSOR LEVEL DELIVERY (SLD)

This delivery profile is used when dropping bombs from high altitude. All you need to do is line up the steering and hold the pickle button down until the bombs come off. At low altitude you usually don't want to be flying straight and level over the target. The SDL profile looks just like the diagram of the CCRP bombing triangle in figure 13-2.

LOFT DELIVERY

At low altitudes, lofting the bombs lets you avoid flying directly over the target area. The disadvan- tage to this delivery profile is inaccuracy. Try it once and you'll see what | mean. If you are going after large targets with a string of bombs or a bunch of cluster bomb units (CBU), this might be a good option.

For this delivery, you want plenty of smash to lob those bombs. Fly up to the airspeed limits of the bombs as you line up the steering to the target. Watch for the first cue for max range (when the first tick mark moves down the steering line). When this hits your FPM, the reticle will flash, indicating that you are inside max range and can begin the loft.

Keep your FPM on that steering line as you smoothly pull the nose up with a 3-4 G pull. The next thing you should see is the release cue sliding down the steering line. If you reach a 45-degree climb before the release cue hits the FPM, unload and hold this pitch attitude. In other words, don’t pull the nose any higher than 45 degrees.

|FALCON’ 40

Tick mark has reset above Max range tick mark sliding down toward the flight path marker Flashing reticle aca velemsacue”

Cah)

Steady reticle Max range cue approaching (circle not flashing) the flight path marker

ae) Cary

-1003.9 00

fem 88 am

DLZ range cue just outside max range Range cue on DIZ at release mark

Fig. 13-6. CCRP release cues approaching the targetFALCON’40

After the FPM flashes and the bombs release, execute a slicing maneuver to get away from the target and back down to low altitude. Your job is done—get yourself home.

—<$$__—

FALCON TRAINING review the

CCRP Training Mission from the game manual to put your skills to the test and see how much you've really learned.

CONTINUOUSLY COMPUTED IMPACT POINT (CCIP)

This submode is a completely visual delivery mode. The FCC displays the impact point of the bombs in the HUD if they were dropped that very moment. CCRP mode has the FCC take you to a release point; CCIP mode requires that you fly the impact point to the target.

Fig. 13-7. CCRP loft delivery profile

CCIP Bombing Triangle

The FCC in this mode must still calculate the trajec- tory of the bombs from the jet at any given moment, the same way it does in CCRP. This time, however, the Falcon uses its A-G radar differently. The FCC points the radar out the front of the jet toward the ground. It uses the radar returns to fig- ure out the exact distance it is from the ground. This is called “slant range.”When the FCC knows this and the bomb trajectory, it figures out the impact point. Remember, this point changes continuously as you fly, so the FCC must “continuously compute’ this impact point many times a second. Now you know how CCIP got its name.

The components of the CCIP bombing triangle are shown in figure 13-8. Several times a second the jet is factoring your pitch attitude, airspeed, weapon trajectory, and slant range. Note that slant range, or the hypotenuse of the triangle, is calculated directly from the radar in the nose of the aircraft.

CCIP Symbology

To just throw the impact point or pipper up in the HUD would make it quite difficult for the pilot to fly this over the target. The FCC adds the“bomb fall line" to help the pilot.

Bomb rangeFALCON’ 40

Flight path marker Bomb fall line

Pipper (impact point of the bombs if pickled now) Bomb range

Fig. 13-8. CCIP bombing triangle Fig. 13-9. CCIP symbology

BOMB FALL LINE

The bomb fall line means just what it says. As you look through the HUD, this line shows the path across the ground the bombs will follow as they drop to earth. It extends down from the FPM toward the earth, the direction the bombs will head when they come off the jet. The end of this line (or the end of this path) is the point where the bombs impact, or the pipper. The pipper is a small circle with a dot in the center. This is the “thing” you want to put on the “thing” (see figure 13-9).

The easiest way to use CCIP mode is to line up the target on the bomb fall line somewhere between the FPM and the pipper. As you track Poe across the ground, the target will move down the bomb fall line. Actually, the pipper, or impact point, is moving “up” toward the target. Doing this lines jase ic Pw eee, you up with the target, and all you have to do is : press the pickle button when the dot is on the tar- Fig. 13-10. CCIP symbology get (see figure 13-10).FALCON’40

DELAY CUE

Sometimes the bomb range is so close to the jet that the actual impact point is out of sight, below the bottom of the HUD. This could happen if you're dropping a high-drag weapon or release from high altitude.

In these cases, the FCC displays an artificial impact point ahead of the actual point so you can see it in the HUD. You can recognize this situation when you see the same tick mark across the bomb fall line as you saw in CCRP mode for a release cue (see figure 13-11.) Now it is called the “delay cue,” but it functions almost the same.

“mene —— Delay cue

Fig. 13-11. CCIP bomb fall line with a delay cue

When you pickle with a delay cue, you are not really at the release point yet, so the bombs do not come off. Instead, the bomb fall line turns into the CCRP steering line and the FCC uses the point you pickled over for the target. This ensures that you fly to the real impact point, where you won't be able to

see the target. Steer the FPM up the steering line with the pickle button held down.When the tick mark hits the FPM, the bombs will release.

CCIP Delivery Profile

If you haven't figured it out already, the easiest way to drop bombs with CCIP is with a diving delivery. The steeper you are, the slower your impact point moves across the ground.When you are shallow or level, the pipper travels much faster, making it harder to pickle at just the right moment. You don't want to be too steep, however; at extreme dive angles, the bomb fall line is much harder to stabi- lize, so smoothly tracking the pipper to the target becomes more difficult. You want a compromise.

Usually, a 10-45-degree dive angle works just fine. Rather than worry about your dive angle, roll in toward the target and set your boresight cross on a spot just beyond the target. (Incidentally, this is called your “aim-off distance.”

As you roll out to a wings-level attitude, put the bomb fall line on the target. Ideally, when you roll out, the target will be about half way up the bomb fall line. If the line is off the target, smoothly correct toward the target with a little bank. When you are tracking the bomb fall line over the target, all you have to do is wait for the pipper to get to the target.

The other dive angle consideration is your alti- tude when you release the bomb. If you drop too low with a steep dive angle, you might not have enough altitude to pull out. In this case, more than just the bombs will hit the target.

DIVE TOSS (DTOS)

Use dive toss (DTOS) as another visual delivery mode when you can't overfly the target with CCIP and need to “toss” the bombs on the target. It is similar to the CCRP mode, except with dive toss, you visually designate the target.

DTOS Symbology

DTOS symbology consists of a TD box and steering line that is used almost like CCRP.

“Sya

Riaarctiani

FALCON'40

PREDESIGNATE SYMBOLOGY

When you first call up this mode, the FCC places the TD box in the middle of the HUD, over the FPM. The radar looks through this box for the target. Using the arrow keys, you must slew the box over a target you have visually identified. The FCC just waits for you to tell it where the target is.

TD box before designating

Fig. 13-12. TD box being slewed in DTOS predesignate

POSTDESIGNATE SYMBOLOGY

When you have the TD box over the target, com- mand a “designate target” by pressing keypad (0). This “ground-stabilizes” the TD box, locking the A-G radar to that spot on the ground. The FCC uses the slant range from the radar to compute the distance to the target and figure out the bombing triangle.

As soon as you designate, the steering line appears in the HUD. Because the FCC now knows where you must fly to get a release solution, it can steer you to the target. The DTOS symbology now works just like CCRP. Follow the steering line and you will see a release cue intersect with the FPM at the point the bombs will make it to the target.

TD box after designating

Steeringline Release cue

Slant range to target

Fig. 13-13. DTOS symbology postdesignate

SLANT RANGE

The slant range to the target is displayed in the lower-right corner of the HUD after you ground-sta- bilize the TD box and let the radar range to that point. This gives you an idea of how close you are getting if your objective is to toss the bombs from a distance.

DTOS Delivery Profile

The whole reason for using DTOS is to toss the bombs from a distance so that you can stay away from the target; there may be a threat in the target area, or you might need to avoid the frag from someone else’s bombs exploding. In either case, DTOS still depends on you to designate the target. This means you must get the target in your HUD FOV.Then, after you designate, you need to track the steering line to get the bombs off. Here is a technique for accomplishing all of this. 1. Find the target. From low altitude, pop up about 5 miles from the target until you canFALCON’ 40

see it. Start in CCRP mode if you have a steer- point on or near the target.

2. Call up DTOS. Cycle your submodes using (until you see DTOS in the lower-left cor- ner of the HUD.

3. Aim toward the target. Roll and pull your nose down toward the target with the bore- sight cross just beyond it. Roll out so the TD box is just above the target. Remember that you'll be following the steering line, so get lined up as close as possible.

4. Slew the TD box. Put it directly on the target you want.

5. Designate. Command designate target with keypad (0). 6. Follow the steering. As you smoothly pull

the nose up the steering line, make neces- sary adjustments to line up the FPM.

7. Look for the release cue. You should see the release cue tick mark slide down the steering line as you approach the release point. If you reach 45 degrees in your pull, unload to hold this attitude until the release cue hits the FPM.

8. Hold the pickle button. Don't forget to keep this held down through the release point.

9. Recover. After the bombs release, slice back down and leave the target area.

If you haven't figured out where DTOS got its name, then you don't deserve to use this mode. You can see how this would look much like a loft profile. The key is to designate and get lined up far enough out from the target to give you time to release the bombs and stay away from the target.

ROCKET MODE

Any true fighter pilot will agree that it’s cool to see rockets flying off your jet. Unfortunately, they're not very accurate and not very lethal. Yes, they do belong in this chapter on unguided weapons. Rockets are somewhat effective against most vehicles. Rockets come in pods and are fired

together in a salvo. A rocket pod contains 19 rock- ets that all fire in about two seconds. You cannot fire just a few rockets in a pod; they all fire together. Toggle to the RCKT WPN page to bring up rocket delivery mode. Do this by cycling through

your loaded weapons using until you see rockets displayed in the HUD and MFD (if the

rocket pod is loaded, of course).

“5

Rocket Symbology

Instead of a bomb trajectory, the FCC now uses a rocket trajectory to display a pipper in the HUD over the computed impact point of the rockets. This floating pipper, shown in figure 13-14, is what you use to aim rockets.

Rocket aiming point

CO)

Fig. 13-14. Rocket pipper

Launching Rockets

Roll in to point the rocket pipper on the target. As you hit the pickle button, remember to hold the pipper on the target for a couple of seconds untilFALCON’ 40

the pod launches all of the missiles. If you're at low altitude in a dive, don't forget to pull out and avoid the fragmentation of whatever the rockets might have hit.

STRAFE

The most lethal use for your 20mm cannon is shredding another airplane. If you really want to tangle it up with the boys on the ground, have at it, but think about what you are risking for such a low probability of kill.On the other hand, the gun is there, and that might be all the excuse you need.

Strafe Symbology

The FCC computes the strafe pipper the same way it computes the rocket pipper. Now it factors the ballistic characteristics for 20mm rounds instead of rockets. Figure 13-15 shows the strafe pipper dis- played in the HUD. Strafing is very similar to firing rockets—just point and shoot, and hope for the best.

"Hat" symbol

Strafe pipper

CTE

Fig. 13-15. Strafe pipper

To achieve any sort of lethality with the gun, you must be within range for 20mm rounds and be able to maintain a steady track while you shoot. The FCC uses aircraft parameters and the radar slant range to the target to correctly place the pipper in the HUD where the bullets should hit the ground. When you reach 8,000 ft. from the target, a hat appears over the strafe pipper, shown in figure 13- 15.This indicates that you are in range.

Strafing Technique

If you want to get anything done on the ground with your 20mm, you need a stabilized track on the target. You may have heard the phrase “track, shoot, track.” Use this technique to group your rounds on the target and avoid scattering bullets everywhere.

Roll in for a strafe pass and start by pointing your boresight cross directly at the target. Slowly bring the pipper up to the target and push forward to unload the jet and hold the pipper on the target. This is your first “track.” Now squeeze the trigger. Remember, you've only got 5 seconds worth of bul- lets. This is the “shoot” part. Avoid the temptation to pull back on the stick as you pull the trigger. Hold that pipper on the target by unloading or bunting over. Even after you let off the trigger, continue to track the target for just a moment. That second “track” is what keeps you from letting the pipper run across the ground.

CONCLUSION

Hauling iron and pounding mud by getting “down among them’ was once a glamorous sport.When you see the capabilities of the precision guided bombs covered in the following chapters, you'll wonder why anyone would want to drop dumb bombs ever again. Just remember, there aren't enough laser-guided bombs to win a war, so whether you like it or not, you will be using all the information you learned in this chapter.Laser-Guided Bombs

KkKKKK CO) PLY ha

14

In This Chapter

* Laser-Guided Bombs (LGBs) bem steel) * LGB Delivery Modes

INTRODUCTION

Alaser-guided bomb (LGB) is a free-fall weapon that guides on a laser spot on the ground. When you need to pinpoint a target like a hardened bunker, this is your weapon of choice. When LGBs are loaded on your aircraft, a targeting pod is also loaded. This is the equipment that “lazes,” or illuminates, the target with a laser spot.

LASER-GUIDED BOMBS (LGBs)

“LGB" is a general description of the weapon. GBU (guided bomb unit), on the other hand, is a designation for laser-guided bombs specific to the U.S. Air Force. A GBU-12, for example, is a 500-pound LGB. Sometimes, these bombs are referred to as GBUs instead of LGBs, but both of these terms mean the same thing.

These are the same weapons as general-purpose bombs. The difference is the guidance kit mounted on the nose of the bomb. This guidance unit can see and

track a laser spot reflecting off something on the ground.

It also controls variable-geometry fins that guide the bomb to the target. Remember, this is still a free-fall weapon; you must

deliver the bomb over the target just as if you were drop-

ping an unguided weapon. The fins on the guidance package can make some adjustments to the bomb’s flight path, but you've got to get it in the ballpark. Can you say “CCRP”? This is the delivery mode used to drop the bomb on a trajectory close to the target. The target- ing pod and guidance unit do the rest.

TARGETING POD

The targeting pod does more than just emit laser energy to guide the bomb. It also provides an infrared (IR) pic- ture of the target to the MFD in the cockpit. This IR image of the target is similar to the image displayed in the Mav- erick, described in Chapter 15.The pod also has both slave and boresight modes of operation.

Targeting Pod Limits

The targeting pod has a 150-degree field of view (FOV) in any direction from the nose of the jet, except for areas blocked by the aircraft. This means that during the bomb’s time-of-flight (TOF) you must keep the target within the targeting pod’s gimbal limits. You can’t just turn and run, putting the target at your tail.

Targeting Pod Display

The targeting pod display has a pointing cross and a tracking gate very similar to the Maverick display. Refer to figure 14-1 as you read the description of the display symbology.FALCON 40

GBU-12s are the

Tracking box Normal field of view current weapon

BSGT mode of

he targeting pod is being used

Weapononaircraft Pointing cross station 3 is selected

Fig. 14-1. Targeting pod display

TRACKING GATE

The tracking gate is the box in the center of the MED that you use to “lock” the targeting pod to one point on the ground, described later with targeting pod operations. The box will “breathe” or pulse when the targeting pod senses an image inside the gate that it can lock on to.

POINTING CROSS

The pointing cross moves around the display to show you where the target pod is looking relative to the nose of the aircraft. This means that if the pointing cross is centered in the display, the target- ing pod is looking right down the nose of the jet. In figure 14-1, for example, the pointing cross shows the targeting pod looking down to the right. This is important to watch so you don’t gimbal the target outside the limits of the pod and lose the laser spot before the bomb can guide to the target.

PRIMA’S OFFICIAL STRATEGY GUIDE

FIELD OF VIEW (FOV) When the“FOV” mnemonic is displayed at the top of the MFD, the targeting pod is displaying a nor- mal picture of the target. Press the OSB above FOV to toggle to EXP view, giving you a 4:1 expanded picture of the target over the normal view. This is a useful feature because the whole idea behind an LGB is to pinpoint a specific target.

Compare the picture from the two targeting pod displays in figure 14-2 to see the difference between normal and expanded FOV.

Fig. 14-2. Normal (FOV) and expanded (EXP) targeting pod imagesSMS STATION

A number is displayed at the lower-left and lower- right sides of the MFD when you have any LGBs remaining on the aircraft. This corresponds to the aircraft station where bombs are loaded. This will be 3,4,6, or 7 for every station that has the selected weapon type loaded on it. The highlighted station is the station selected to drop the next bomb. You can toggle between the different stations and

weapons with (BACKSPACE).

WEAPON STATUS

“RDY" displayed on the MFD indicates that the bombs are armed and ready to drop.

SENSOR OF INTEREST (SOI)

SO! tells you what you are actually controlling when you slew symbology with the arrow keys. “NOT SOI" displayed across the MFD tells you the slew controls are operating the symbology in the HUD, not the tracking gates in the MFD.

HUD Symbology

CCRP is the bombing mode used with the targeting pod.When you drop LGBs, you'll be using CCRP symbology to get the bomb off close enough to the target for the guidance unit to find the laser spot and track it to impact.

Figure 14-3 shows the delivery symbology that appears after you lock the targeting pod onto a tar- get. Review the symbology for this delivery mode in Chapter 13 if you've got any questions about CCRP.

LGB DELIVERY MODES

When you call up an SMS WPN page for LGBs, you automatically enter the delivery mode for targeting pod, CCRP, A-G radar, and LGB integration. You oper- ate the targeting pod from two different sub- modes:’slave” and “boresight.” You can toggle between these two submode options by pressing (7). The appropriate “SLAV” and “BSGT” designations will appear in the lower-left corner of the HUD for the submode selected.

FALCON’ 40

Ler Brinig

ard

Fig. 14-3. Targeting pod display

Targeting Pod Slave Mode

In this mode, the targeting pod always starts out tied to the air-to-ground radar cursors. Most of the time, this means that the targeting pod is looking at the selected steerpoint. If the pilot selects the Snowplow mode (SP) of the air-to-ground radar, the targeting pod will look wherever the pilot slews the cursors.

Figure 14-04 shows the aircraft delivering in slave mode. Snowplow is being used to point the targeting pod. Note how the WPN page for the tar- geting pod displays NOT SOI because the pilot has not yet designated.

You can ground stabilize the targeting pod by designating with keypad (0), This first designate will lock the air-to-ground radar onto a ground target and “detach” the pod from the radar cursors. Lock- ing the air-to-ground radar on a target does not affect your ability to slew the targeting pod. You can slew the targeting pod before and after this first designate.

As you slew the targeting pod around the pic- ture in the MFD, the laser spot on the ground moves.The bomb has a very good chance of guid- ing on this spot without any further action from the pilot. The pilot can, however, raise the probability of kill on the target by locking the laser spot on the target. Remember, the targeting pod must see anFALCON’ 40

identifiable target in the tracking gate. When the tracking gate is breathing over a valid target, press keypad (0) again; this second designate locks the targeting pod onto the target.

When the targeting pod is in the slave mode, you are using CCRP bombing mode in the HUD to drop the bomb (see figure 14-3). All the same CCRP considerations mentioned in Chapter 13 still apply.

\

Fig. 14-4. Targeting pod slave mode

ee bo Targeting Pod Boresight

ie Mode

Instead of looking where the radar cursors are

pointed, the targeting pod in boresight mode uses

aTD box in the HUD to point the targeting pod

image and laser spot toward a visual target (figure

14-5). Slew the TD box over an identifiable target on

the ground and designate to ground-stabilize the

targeting pod on this position. After designating

the target, CCRP attack symbology appears in the HUD for the LGB delivery.

SOlis in the HUD for controlling the TD box

Boresight mode

Fig. 14-5. Targeting pod display

In figure 14-05 note how the SOI is in the HUD until the targeting pod is designated.

-e—_—___——

FALCON TRAINING: Review

Training Mission 24 in the game manual for more information on the targeting pod and LGBs. Try flying the training mission in Tactical Engagement to make sure you are comfort- able operating the system. The time to experi- ment with this is not in the middle of the bat- tlefield with everyone shooting at you.

CONCLUSION

Anyone who watched CNN footage of the Gulf War knows the capabilities of LGBs. You'll find yourself using this weapon a lot when it’s available in the supply depot.AGM-65 Maverick

oO Oe. 4 CON aw DY

ld

In This Chapter

are ETI M94. 0) aceite) * Employment Considerations

INTRODUCTION

When you need to take out armored vehicles, the Maverick should be your weapon of choice. This missile is opti- mized for tracking pinpoint objects and blowing a hole through them. The missile works great even when the vehi-

cle is moving.

AGM-65 MISSILE

The Maverick can be a lethal weapon against pinpoint targets. Here’s what you need to know about the AGM-65 to employ it from the Falcon.

Maverick Mechanics

The seeker head in the Maverick missile tracks targets using an infrared (IR) image. Different materials and objects produce different levels of IR energy. This energy produces a picture that is surprisingly similar to that of video. This means you can pinpoint a spot of infrared heat on the video (like a hot tank moving across the ground) and lock the missile seeker on it. The Maverick can then track this point from launch to impact.

When the missile leaves the rail, you will no longer receive a video picture from that missile. If you are carry- ing other Mavericks, the MFD picture will transfer to another missile. If that was the last missile to go, your MFD picture will go blank.

The Maverick gets the job done by exploding on impact with the target. The missile’s warhead produces an explosion that is directed forward for maximum pene- tration of armored or reinforced targets. You get little col-

lateral damage from a Maverick, so make sure the seeker is tracking a target before you launch or you'll probably waste the shot.

Maverick Symbology

Symbology for the Maverick is similar to the targeting pod's. The primary symbols are the tracking gate, point- ing cross, and dynamic launch zone (DLZ). Refer to figure 15-1 for an example.

TRACKING GATE

The tracking gate is used to show where the missile seeker is looking and to point the missile at a specific tar- get that you wish to lock. This symbol consists of a verti- cal and horizontal line stretching across the WPN MFD page and a bracket that looks like four corners of a square. The tracking gate can be slaved to the radar so that the aircraft system points it toward a target, or the pilot can manually slew it.

When you slew the tracking gate over an identifiable target, the tracking gate will pulse, or“breathe,” when it recognizes an identifiable point to track. When you desig- nate to lock the seeker to that point, the bracket will clamp down on the target.FALCON'40

Not SOl indication

Slave mode

Pointing cross

Tracking —| gate cross

Tracking gate bracket

Aircraft station for selected missile

Fig. 15-1. Maverick display

MAVERICK MFD PICTURE

The Maverick display is presented on the AGM-65 SMS Weapon page (WPN).The picture is centered on the missile seeker. As you slew the picture around, be aware of how far the missile seeker is looking off of its center axis.

POINTING CROSS

The pointing cross is a cue to tell the pilot where the Maverick seeker head is looking in relation to the Maverick missile body. This is important because of the gimbal limits of the Maverick seeker. In other words, there are restrictions on how far to the side the missile seeker can be looking when the missile is launched.

For the purpose of this reference, the center of the tracking gate cross represents the center of the missile body. The pointing cross represents the

Field of view

Polarity searching for hot targets ona cold background (HOC)

et'7S-\)— Weapon selected

— Max range of the missile

Range cue

Missile DLZ

— Min range of the missile

10 degrees, 20 degrees, and 30 degrees reference tick marks for gimbal limits

position of the seeker in relation to the center axis of the missile. As an additional reference, you will see 10, 20, and 30-degree lines below the center of the tracking gate. Use these as a reference with the pointing cross to determine how far off the center of the missile axis the seeker is looking.

Even though the Maverick can see targets up to 60 degrees off of its axis, it can only be launched at targets within 30 degrees. This means you might see targets in the Maverick display that you would not be able to successfully shoot unless you turned the jet to point the missile closer to the target. If the missile seeker is out of limits to take a valid shot, the pointing cross will flash to warn you.

MISSILE DYNAMIC LAUNCH ZONE (DLZ)

On the right side of the Maverick WPN page you will see the DLZ bracket. The range cue is a small arrow that slides down the side of the DLZ bracket.FALCON’ 40

When you are in range for a shot, the range cue is below the top of the DLZ bracket, or inside the max range. If you get too close, the cue will be below the bottom of the bracket, or inside the min range that you can fire the missile.

MISSILE POLARITY

This refers to the type of image that the missile will be able to track in the infrared display. In the Falcon, the Maverick always looks for hot targets on cold backgrounds. The WPN MFD displays “HOC” in the top right corner of the display to indicate this.

MAVERICK OPERATION

Cycle your A-G weapons with (BACKSPACE). This will bring up the SMS WPN page and your A-G weapons. If the Maverick is the only weapon loaded, this page will display. If other air-to-ground weapons are loaded, you might have to toggle through them until you get to the AGM-65.

The two delivery options for the AGM-65 are slave mode (SLAV) and boresight mode (BSGT). These function similarly to the targeting pod with LGBs. Toggle ("to cycle between the delivery sub- modes, or use OSB-20 on the WPN MFD.

Boresight Mode

In this mode, you simply point the target designa-

\ tor (TD) box in the HUD toward a target and desig- nate by pressing keypad (0) to ground-stabilize the TD box at that location (shown in figure 15-2). After you do this, you can slew the missile seeker over to the desired target.

When the seeker sees an identifiable heat source for a target, it will pulse or breathe. Desig- nate a second time to command the seeker to lock onto the target in the tracking gate (figure 15-3).

Slave Mode

The slave mode ties the Maverick seeker to the A-G radar cursors. This means the Maverick can be slewed to any target that can be tracked by the radar in GM, GMT, or SEA modes. The first step in using the slave mode for employing the Maverick is to designate a target on the radar scope. Figure

15-4, for example, shows a target designated in the Snowplow mode of the GMT A-G radar.

Boresight mode Range cue in range for shot

Fig. 15-2. HUD view of the Maverick BSGT mode

Notice how the target is identified with a dia- mond on the radar screen when you designate. You also see the “NOT SOI" message, indicating that the sensor of interest, where you will slew the symbol- ogy, has changed to the AGM-65 WPN page. This stabilizes the radar cursor and points the Maverick seeker at the target.

At this point you still need to lock the Maverick seeker on the target. Look for the tracking gate bracket to be breathing around the target. If it is not pulsing, you might need to slew the seeker closer to a target or wait until you get closer for the missile seeker to identify the heat source. When this happens, designate again with keypad (0) and the seeker should lock on (figure 15-5).

imate weeFALCON’ 40

FALCON TRAINING refer to

Training Mission 21 in the game manual for

\

more information on the AGM-65 Maverick. Just like LGBs, the “switchology” for launching a Maverick can be complicated, so this is something you'll want to practice before sticking yourself in the heat of the battle.

Tracking gate locked to target

Maverick display DLZ (AGM-65)

OPER 26S 1) bbs

usc

Pointing cross Rangecue _Missile on within gimbal limits in range station 7 e of the seeker fortheshot —_isselected

Fig. 15-3. MFD view of the AGM-65 WPN page

Target locked Snow plow

(inside diamond) mode

GMT POD iiol at LE

"NOT SOI licates you are no longer slewing the radar,

you are now operating the maverick.

Fig. 15-4. Target designated in the Snowplow mode of GMT

Range cue out of range

Fig. 15-5. Maverick WPN page in slave modeFALCON’ 40

EMPLOYMENT CONSIDERATIONS

After you designate to lock the missile seeker on the target, here are some things to confirm before Say you “rifle” (the term for launching a Maverick) and send the missile on its way. * Confirm the seeker is within the gimbal limits for launching. The pointing cross should be

within 30 degrees of the center of the missile axis and it should be steady, not flashing.

* Make sure you are in range for the shot. Con- firm that the range cue on the DLZ is inside the bracket. Notice the DLZ in figure 15-5.The range cue is still well out of range at the top of the MFD. For the missile to make it to the tar- get, you would need to drive in closer before you launched.

* Remember the Maverick must be able to see its target all the way to impact. If anything will be obstructing the view of the seeker as it tracks the target, try launching from a different angle.

CONCLUSION

The Maverick is a deadly weapon if you get it on track. Once the missile homes in on its target, there

" is very little anyone can do to escape. You'll find this a very useful weapon when you are trying to take out armored vehicles on the move. This is when their engines have been running and generating a strong infrared heat signal that the Maverick just loves. Happy hunting!

isFALCON’ 40HARM Targeting System

KKK Ot PLN WD

Ut

In This Chapter

* HARM Targeting System (HTS) * HTS Display Peis

INTRODUCTION

The high-speed anti-radiation (HARM) missile is another specialized weapon in the Falcon’s arsenal. This missile guides specifically on threat radar signals. When this thing eats the radar for lunch, it makes it hard for enemy surface-to-air (SAM) radar sites to guide their missiles to their targets.

HARM TARGETING SYSTEM (HTS)

To target a radar site for destruction, you will use the HTS.

This consists of the missile to track the signal, the HTS pod that receives radar signals and locates their emission sites, and the WPN display. The HTS display on the WPN page lets you pick the threat signal you wish to target and send a HARM after it. This can ruin that SA-6 opera- tor's day.

AGM-88 HARM

This missile is designed for one purpose: to kill radar sites.

Its receiver antenna passively tracks and guides on radar signals. Usually, the missile is used to track SAM radars to keep them from targeting friendly aircraft with their mis- siles. As the HARM homes in on the site, the missile will explode in the air just above the radar, shredding the radar dish or antenna.

The HARM can be launched against a radar signal anywhere around your aircraft. Keep in mind that the more the missile must turn when launched, the more energy it will expend getting pointed in the right direc- tion. This will significantly decrease the range that it can fly.

To launch the HARM, use the HTS pod and your WPN display to locate and designate the specific radar site to be targeted. Because the missile has such a pinpoint kill mechanism, you must be sure the radar site you have tar- geted is radiating energy for the HARM to track. Without this signal, the missile will never get close enough to kill the target. Use the symbology on your WPN display to determine this. Pity the poor soul who was assigned to that radar van for the day; he should have stayed in bed.

HTS Pod

This is the key to the HTS platform. The pod passively detects radar signals within its search volume. It displays the information it receives on the HTS WPN page of your MFD. Use this information to target a specific radar site.

HTS DISPLAY

When you select the HARM as your weapon, the SMS WPN page for the HTS is displayed (figure 16-1).This is a representation of the area around your aircraft and shows the search volume of the HTS pod. It also processes the bearing and range of the radar signals it receives and positions symbols on the display at the rela- tive location of the threat radars from your aircraft.FALCON’ 40

Range scale

HTS display

fordisplay HTS cursor

Targeted threat site locked up (circled)

HARMs selected (AGM-88s)

Non-radiating threat sights

HTS search volume

HSD route overlay

Missileon WPNpage Aircraft position

station 3 is selected

Fig. 16-1. HTS display on the MFD

MFD Symbology

The display for the HTS is easily recognized by the circle on the MFD.This will be the SMS WPN page for the AGM-88 HARM.

SEARCH VOLUME

The circle on the display represents the area where the HTS can detect a radar signal. When the HTS detects a threat, it continues to display the radar site even if you fly far enough away to take it out of the search area.

HORIZONTAL SITUATION AWARENESS (HSD) INFORMATION

The HTS superimposes HSD information on the threat display. Seeing an overhead view of your planned route allows you to view the proximity of radar threats to your routing.

RANGE SCALE

The range scale of the display can be increased or decreased to change the amount of area you view on the display. Range scale options are 15, 30,60, and 120 nm displays. Change this with (F11 }to decrease or (F12)to increase the range of the dis-

played area. You can also use OSB-19 and OSB-20, respectively.

HTS CURSOR

The cursor for HTS looks similar to an A-A radar cur- sor and functions in much the same way. You can slew it around the HTS display and use it to desig- nate the threat you wish to launch the HARM against.

THREAT SYMBOLS

The HTS display represents the radar targets as alphanumeric symbols. The symbol usually corre- sponds to the specific radar threat systems, such as an“8” symbol for an SA-8 SAM site. The symbol is placed on the display at the relative location from your aircraft.

There are two ways that a threat symbol can be displayed. Obviously, the HTS pod will be displaying , threat symbols for radars that it detects. The other means for displaying symbols is from programmed locations for fixed SAM sites from your squadron intelligence. These sites will be loaded into the HTS. There will be a symbol displayed at these locations, but this doesn’t mean the site will necessarily be radiating.FALCON’40

When the HTS detects radar emissions from a known site, you will see the alphanumeric symbol highlighted (figure 16-2). If a threat site turns its radar off, you will then see just the plain symbol at that location. The HTS now knows it is there, but lets you know it is no longer radiating.

HUD Symbology

Much of the HARM symbology in the HUD is similar to other weapons displays for the Falcon (figure 16-2).

MISSILE RETICLE

With HARM selected, the HUD displays a missile ret-

icle just to remind you there is a missile called up.

This will be a circle in the middle of the HUD, similar * tothe A-A MRM reticle.

TARGET LOCATION

When you lock a target on the HTS and it happens to be in your HUD field of view, you will see a small circle in the HUD over the location of the threat radar site. If the radar is not in the HUD's FOV, a loca- tor line will extend from the gun cross toward the threat radar and give you the bearing to the site in degrees off your nose (see figure 16-3).The range to the target is also displayed in the lower-right corner of the HUD.

DYNAMIC LAUNCH ZONE (DLZ)

The bracket on the right side of the HUD is a DLZ that appears when a target is locked up on the HTS. This is the same DLZ information as you get with other weapon displays, showing the maximum and minimum ranges from which you can fire a missile at the target.

Locked target in

HUD field of view (circle)

© Fig. 16-2. HTS display in the HUD

HARM reticle

Max range

Min range

Rangetoa locked target

Con

SaFALCON 40 HARM EMPLOYMENT Targetlcatortine

(locked target is 90 degrees off your left side)

When you get familiar with HTS, you will probably find it one of the easier systems to employ.The nice part about using the HARM while flying suppres- sion of enemy air defenses (SEAD) missions is hav- ing the situation awareness about where all the threats are located.

HTS Mode Selection

Call up the HTS the same way you select all other air-to-ground missiles. One option is to cycle your A-G weapons with (BACKSPACE). When you select an AGM-88 HARM, the HTS display is automatically called up on the SMS WPN page.

Launching the HARM

To launch the HARM, first lock a threat symbol on the HTS scope. Do this the same way that you lock any other target—slew the HTS cursor over the radar site and designate with keypad (0).A circle appears around this threat symbol, along with all of the information displayed in the HUD when a tar- get is locked (figure 16-3).

The HTS is limited to locking only one target at a time. However, after you hand off a target to the missile and launch it, the HARM no longer needs the HTS for guidance. Therefore, you can immedi- ately break lock on the target you selected and lock onto a new target to fire the next missile.

When a target is locked, confirm that it is still radiating. Also check that you are in range to fire the missile. If the target is off to the side or behind you, turn toward the radar site to give the missile the ability to reach a greater range.

CONCLUSION

If your job for the mission is SEAD and you're carry- ing the HTS, you can be a SAM operator's worst nightmare.When you know what you're doing with this system, you can be a huge asset to a package that's trying to get past some SAM threat sites.

ae

Fig. 16-3. HTS employment