F.A.Q.
To install, should I use my Allied Force or my ORIGINAL MicroProse Falcon 4.0 ™ CD?
Neither. Simply run the installer, as is…

Is it possible to remove all lame jokes from this document?
Is it possible for the_Norwegian to NOT be handsome…?

Is the new 3D Pit fully compatible with my 6DoF Track IR™ ?
Yes.

Where can I find support for this product?
See the FF on the ‘Net Section. (click here)

Is it LEGAL for me to have this product on my Hard Drive?
FreeFalcon has ALWAYS complied with the directives of the IP Owner.

Is it LEGAL for you to be so talented?
Please, please…! Stop. Enough. I prefer the term ‘Gifted’.

In my 2D ‘Pit, how can I see my Pipper in CCIP? It seems to be beneath the HUD?
See the CCIP Note in the Learning Section. (click here)

The switches don’t “move” in all of my 3D Pits…!
Correct. You DO – however - have moving switches in your Viper ‘Pit.

There seem to be “Bugs”….!?
Naturally. And – together – yourself and the FreeFalcon Team will eradicate them. See Page ii

Where can I find the ORIGINAL FALCON4.0 MANUAL…?
See the Study Programme Section. (click here)

My load times are really slow…! It takes 15 mins to enter the 3D world…!
Ensure you have killed all background processes.
This is ESPECIALLY true of Anti-Virus software. With Norton running, I can expect a 16 minute
load. With Norton disabled, it goes from 16 minutes to 12 seconds. Try End-It-All or XP Smoker.
If you are running an ATI Card, make sure that End-It-All doesn’t kill any of your ATI processes.

For Falcon - which is more important – my CPU or my GPU?
Your CPU. See the “Build A Rig With Rangr” Section (click here)

OVERCLOCKING my GPU won’t cause a problem, right?
WRONG. Overclocking has caused problems with FreeFalcon5. Avoid it.

Can I still use TacEdit and F4Browse?
NO. The Database is LOCKED. See the DATABASE WARNING Section. (click here)




                                       12               F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
WHERE are my COCKPITS...?!!?
The Cockpits are in a SEPARATE Package; a SEPARATE Download.

Is 1gb of RAM enough?
Barely. 2Gb is enough. 4GB rocks.

I want to make a Skin for FreeFalcon. Should I use 512 textures or 1024 textures…?
See the Skin Textures 512 Vs 1024 Tutorial in this Companion. (click here)

My Hot-Pit refuelling doesn’t seem to work…! There’s no “option”…!
Some 3rd Party Cockpits do NOT include this option with their ‘pits. You’ll need to copy in the
ORIGINAL FreeFalcon “menu.dat”. You don’t have it…? Please check in your Docs/EXTRAS
folder. We’ve included it there for your convenience.

What is “Combat Autopilot”, and WHY would one use it…?
See the Random Considerations Section of this Companion. (click here)

Is FreeFalcon the “Hollywood” version of Falcon…?
Well – better the “Hollywood” version than the “Bollywood” version, ‘eh…?
Better a “movie” than a SLIDE SHOW…!

My jet is dropping chaff, but NO FLARES…!
Check your EWS Program. Select Default Program “2” or “4”.

Should I use “application preference” for my Anti-Aliasing Setting…?
No. If you want to use AA, you have to check it 'hard', not application preference.

Has the aiming reticle for the rocket been fixed…?
Yes. See the ROCKETS Section, in this Companion. (click here)

My “Bubble Slider” is missing…!
It has been removed. The Bubble has already been optimised.

Can I use my Allied Force ‘Pit…?
Yes - IF you fly Allied Force. IF you fly FreeFalcon – No; No, you can’t.

I can’t get that “3D” look in my 3D Pit. Like in the Videos I see posted…!
A Track-IR is required to move around the 3D pit, as seen in many videos.
See the Track-IR Section (click here)

When I change to the 3D ‘Pit, my HUD Symbology / Cues keep going out of “calibration”…!
Centre your Track IR. See Qawa’s Note in the Miscellany Section. (click here)

Should I use Vista or XP...?
Windows XP is the recommended OS. Vista has issues, many of which we cannot support.

My UI Settings seem to have changed…!?
See the RANDOM CONSIDERATIONS Section for tips. (click here)

Is this RedViper...?
No. This is FreeFalcon. FreeFalcon is in no way associated with the RV Group.




                                       13               F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Improved Naval Ops
Falconeer Aviators – REJOICE…!


No longer will your wheels be above or below deck in carrier ops.

One may now fly every type of naval aircraft, AND will have no problems
getting the aircraft airborne from the carrier. FF Carriers now have
operational BLAST DEFLECTORS…!

FF5.0 also includes new Naval template TE's, which have various Carrier
Groups, and almost every flyable Naval Aircraft assigned to one or more of
the available Carriers…!

Some TEs include the same carriers and aircraft that are used in all the
Korean campaigns. So now, one may practice one’s Carrier Op techniques
in the TE before risking failures in carrier squadron Campaign Missions…!

You can find a list of the carriers and aircraft assigned to each in the relevant
Appendices at the end of this section.

The colourful Charles de Gaulle and CV-66 America have been added to the
mix, and many carrier skins have been upgraded. Furthermore, aircraft will
now be placed in the correct takeoff position.




                                                       Due to faster load times
                                                       one may now commit to
                                                       the mission in the
                                                       normal two (2) minutes
                                                       prior to takeoff and, still
                                                       be placed on the carrier
                                                       deck.




                     34                      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
TAKEOFF
The Kuznetsov and HMS Invincible have one launch position.

The Essex, Forestal and Charles de Gaulle have 2 each.

The Reagan, Nimitz, Kennedy, America and Connie have 4 each.

On carriers with multiple positions you will randomly be placed on one of the launch positions.

Whether joining as Ramp, Taxi or Takeoff you will enter the 3D world at Takeoff time and in the
correct launch position.

You will be facing forward for takeoff regardless of the heading of the carrier.

In Real-Life, ‘hooks’ are not required for take-off. So – in FF, “lowering your hook” before take-
off, really simulates connecting to the catapult. Therefore, your hook will NOT be shown in the
“down” position. When you “lower your hook” (actually – you are simulating attaching to the
catapult), a message will appear in the upper left corner saying, “Attached to Catapult”.

At the same time on all carriers (except the Essex and HMS Invincible), a jet blast deflector will rise
behind your aircraft. Increase power to maximum RPM and “release your hook” (actually –
activate the catapult) for launch.

It is always a
good procedure
to check your
flaps when
carrying
maximum load-
outs.

The F-4B, F-4C,
F-4J and Super
Etendard are
quite sensitive.

If unable to
depart with full
flaps on these
you should
reduce your
load-out.



IMPORTANT NOTE         If you have wingmen in your flight you must give them a ‘Rejoin’
command as soon as you are airborne. Otherwise they will return to their home base on land.

In flights off carriers that are solely AI aircraft, the AI will appear airborne fifteen (15) seconds
before their Takeoff time.




                            35                             F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
CHEWBAKKA’s Guide To Carrier Landings

This is a general description that is meant to fit a variety of aircraft, and allow the pilot
some time and safety margin for his preparations.

For more 'aggressive' and refined procedures see Wolfhound's Guide

The factor that makes the biggest difference for the different aircraft is the landing speed.
Try to find the best landing speed for your aircraft before you attempt to land at a safe
altitude.

To do this: pop out the flaps, the speedbrakes and the gear (below 300KIAS) and then
slow down and try to find the slowest speed you can hold an AOA of about 3-5 degrees
whilst maintaining level flight.



Preparations

Send your wingmen to RTB as soon as you're feet wet and clear of enemy fighters. AI
pilots don't land on carriers (since the term AI implies at least some intelligence, these
guys probably know better than to try a 'controlled' crash of a multi-million dollar plane on a
billion dollar ship). They will go for the alternate, and it makes no sense to have them burn
their fuel just to watch you land.

You can get rid of your unused bombs now.

This is not strictly necessary in Falcon4.0™, but the lighter your jet is, the easier it can be
controlled on final. If you decide to keep your unused ordnance, it is OK. It does not make
the explosion any bigger when you crash. Nowadays, RL pilots tend to bring unused
ammo back on deck, since the ordnance has become more expensive, and procedures
have become safer.

Call AWACS for vectors to the carrier group (QQ7). AWACS will give you vectors and –
more importantly - the TACAN channel of the carrier.

Hit T-ILS on the ICP, enter the channel, push ENTR, push
the DCS up once to get back to the scratchpad and push 0
on the ICP to change the TACAN band from X to Y (for
dynamic TACAN) then push ENTR again. You can do all
this on the backup panel as per the F4 manual if you want,
but by using the ICP you can keep your eyes on the
instruments.



Switch the ILS/NAV switch to NAV and if you are in range for the TACAN you should be
getting bearing and DME to the carrier on the HSI.




                          36                           F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
You can also head for the waypoint that is supposed to be over the carrier, but the carrier
will have moved and is usually between 5-15 miles away from this waypoint.

Switch the ILS/NAV switch to NAV and if you are in range for the TACAN you should be
getting bearing and DME to the carrier on the HSI.




                                                                            •




                                                                       Switch your radar to SEA-Mode and SP.
                                                                       When you see a lot of returns in an area
                                                                       of about 2 miles around that will be your
                                                                       carrier group

                                                                       Now that we have found the carrier, we'll
                                                                       need to follow the procedures outlined
                                                                       below.




      •    Do a low pass over the carrier (you've all seen TOP GUN - just like that).

            Since A.I. pilots don't like to land on carriers the airspace should be clear.
           Try to fly parallel or straight over the carrier's landing deck 1 and note the heading of
           the carrier. It should be pointing into the wind, but this is not always the case.


      •    The number on the "runway" does not indicate a heading.
           It is the number of the ship…!

      •    Click on the CRS button of the HSI and enter the heading.

      •    Now head the opposite way the carrier is going and keep going for some miles.
           The further out you fly, the more time you'll have to get set up for approach.




1
    For US Carriers, this is the deck which is at a left offset angle to the direction the Carrier is traveling.


                                   37                                    F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Approach

    •   Now use your HSI to do an instrument approach as described in the F4 manual.

                                                         •   You have not read that? Well, turn about
                                                     90 degrees to intercept the radial that you have
                                                     just entered for CRS (190 in the example
                                                     below). When the middle part of the needle
                                                     starts to come closer to the centre, turn to the
                                                     heading that you noted in your Top Gun flyover.

                                                     7 miles out, needle is coming down to the center, time to
                                                     turn right 190

                                                That was by no means a precision approach like
ILS would be, but at least you are coming in from the right direction now. Note: When you need less
time to make your preparations for landing, skip the part above. Just stay in visual range and line up with a
MkII Eyeball.


Start preparing your aircraft now:
        Get down to about 1000ft MSL and level out

        Turn Radar Altitude on and set your ALOW to 100 ft. The carrier's deck is 97ft (Nimitz-
        Class) above MSL so if set at 100 ft and your ALOW is flashing you'll be already below the
        ramp and likely hit the stern.

        Slow down, pop the speed brakes all the way out

        When you're below 300KIAS drop your gear. When you are flying the F/A-18C/D your
        speed brakes will automatically retract when you drop the gear. So if you need to lose
        some more speed in an F/A-18, wait a little longer before you drop your gear

        Unlike RL your weight (well your A/Cs weight) does not matter for the landing on the carrier
        except that your plane handles easier when it is lighter. So if you'll feel more comfortable
        you can dump some fuel, but keep at least 2000lbs (depending on your A/C) in case you
        have to go around.

        If you are flying an aircraft with manual flaps or have your F/A-18 set on manual flaps - start
        deploying the flaps when your airspeed approaches 200KIAS. If you put the flaps out above
        225KIAS you may get a flashing 'RDC SPEED' on the HUD - so slow down first.

Be familiar with the modeling of flaps and speed brakes for the various aircraft you are flying.
Flaps should be fully deployed, and speed brakes will sometimes retract automatically when
certain criteria are met.

        The key to getting arrested (trapped, stopped, kept aboard) on a carrier is to have the
        arrestor HOOK DOWN.

        Do this now.

        Make sure you have Drift C/O turned off and be prepared for a crosswind landing
          push SEQ on the ICP DCS to display wind info in the DED.




                             38                               F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
          The contrast between the dark sea and a bright blue sky can make it difficult to see
          everything in your HUD with the standard green symbols. If your aircraft allows, switch to
          red - this can be seen equally well against bright and dark background.

          The usual stuff: Master Arm OFF, Laser Off, landing light on, position lights on (to flash), be
          polite to the ATC, and turn your radar off (not Rad Alt), etc…

You should be in level flight at 1000ft and about 200KIAS by now - keep it that way until you are
about 1 mile out. NOW:

There's a bunch of ships in view - aim for the biggest

          As soon as you can make out the carrier's deck start lining up. If you want more realism go
          for the offset landing deck that would be used on a real carrier. In this case you aim your
          nose a little to the right of the carrier first....

          .... and turn left as soon as you intercept the runway heading.

You need to Call the Ball now, and do it loud.
There is no ball on the carriers in F4, but your family will have some fun when you do so…!

If you like it a little easier, line up parallel and to the left of the carrier's sail.
The deck is longer there, and - since the AI pilots don't like it - the deck will usually be empty.


Touchdown:
          You'll have to do a lot of things real quick now so be prepared:

          Depending on the weight and type of your A/C keep your AOA as low as possible i.e. keep
          your airspeed up. 200KIAS would kill you in RL, but are fine in Falcon™.
          You should be able to bring the most planes in at 150-180 knots.

          Come in low, keep your glide slope low - as if you wanted to make a real low and slow flyby

          Watch your altitude - the deck is at 97 feet MSL. If you're lower - you are not going to make
          it. Be careful when you have to come back up. If you throttle up too much you'll go up too
          high and your glide slope is going to be too steep

          Aim your FPM slightly behind the ramp

          Some carriers have wires painted on the deck. They are – however – not implemented.

          (For reality's sake you can try to catch the number three wire and make sure you have ACMI running
          to prove it.) All that matters in Falcon4™ to get trapped is to have all three wheels on the
          deck. Your airspeed and your throttle setting do not matter, as long as you get all three
          wheels on the deck you'll get arrested.2

          DO NOT FLARE - you'd pop right back up and overshoot.
          The landing gear of naval A/C is build to take abuse - so slam it down.

          As soon as you cross the ramp pull back your throttle to drop the few remaining feet and at
          the same time push your stick all the way forward. You need your nose down before the
          deck ends.




2
    Better than being arrested for playing with yourself on public transport. Not that I’d know… - Ara’


                                 39                                 F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
       When you hear your main gear touch down and your nose drops, put your throttle in
       afterburner (if your plane has one). That way you'll have enough energy to take off again if
       you fail to get your nose down in time.

       If you see the opposite end of the deck disappear under your nose (you can't see it in the
       HUD anymore) pull up 15 degrees, make sure to hit AB, retract the gear and hope for the
       best.

       If you got all wheels on the deck before you fall off at the other end you'll be stopped - no
       not slowed down to a stop, but STOPPED.


You'll now find yourself sitting on the deck; happy to still have your simulated life.

"OK son, we got ya'. You can throttle back now, you're not going to make the ship go any faster."




                          40                             F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Wolfhound' s Landing Guide for the F- 14
In the F-14 I usually dump fuel to about 3000 lbs, so I can fly a more realistic landing speed.
Enter the case 1 landing pattern from behind the ship. Fly at 800 ft and ~400 kts in the upwind leg.
Put the hook down (better be early than too late). 3
Fly over the ship and count to 5 potatoes, then bank the plane 80 degrees and make a 4G turn and
turn to the downwind leg. If you're cool    don't count to 5 and enter the break right above the ship.

In the downwind leg go to 600 ft and dirty up the plane Brakes out, gear down @ 250 kts; flaps
down @ 200 kts. Make the turn to final and, at three-quarters of a mile: Call the ball.

In the F-14 keep your airspeed between 140 and 150 kts (depending on your weight).
Keep your flight path marker between the 2,5 °and 5° line on your HUD and aim for the 1 wire.



                                                                                                  This is a steeper
                                                                                                  approach than
                                                                                                  real life and
                                                                                                  goes against
                                                                                                  every rule of a
                                                                                                  real carrier
                                                                                                  landing, but this
                                                                                                  is Falcon…☺

                                                                                                  Sometimes, we
                                                                                                  need to ignore
                                                                                                  the Real Life
                                                                                                  rules of carrier
                                                                                                  ops.

                                                                                                  Set your throttle
                                                                                                  at about 75%.
                                                                                                  Try not to go to
                                                                                                  idle thrust. Keep
                                                                                                  this attitude until
                                                                                                  touchdown.


Once you hit the deck, pull back the throttle to idle and push the stick forward.
(This goes against the rules of carrier aviation, but in Falcon it gets the nose wheel on deck).
Don't worry about the bolter. You’ll find out soon enough if you can't get the nose wheel down, and
still have plenty of time to go back to full MIL power. Once your nose wheel is on deck (or if you do
a bolter), go back to full MIL power (if in the F-14B/D). Thus – if necessary - you can take off again.
Simply retract the airbrake, and go around.


Note: RL carriers are hard to sink - F4 carriers were not. BUT – FF5.0 has fixed this…!

If you hit the stern of the carrier (came in too low) or the sail - the carrier will NO LONGER sink.

Carriers will sustain damage, just as they do in Real-Life.




3
    Remember if you forget the hook and you bolter or the LSO has to remember for you, you owe the LSO's a beer!



                                 41                                F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                                      Keystrokes




                   IFF-Scan Power           Ctrl-i
                    (turns IFF Systems on/off)
      [Note that some Pits (e.g. F-4) have a functional switch]

                  IFF-Scan        RCtrl-Lft_arrow
                  (initiates IFF Scan on AA Radar)

            Toggle Engine Display          Shift-Ctrl-h
        (Turns engine display overlay on the monitor on/off)

                     Cycle Engine         Ctrl-o
(Alternates between engines whilst displaying overlay on the monitor)

                 Flap Display Toggle          Alt-q
         (Turns Flaps display overlay on the monitor on/off)

                 Pretty Screen Shot         Shift-o
         (Takes a "clean screenie" with no writing overlaid)




                           59            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
60   F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
The FF Team have streamlined the F4 Patch into the        FFVIPER Config Editor.
       * Options are now grouped into more logical categories.
       * For simplicity of use, redundant options have been removed.
       * In the interest of Choice, extra options have been added.


A few things to note
Ensure that the FF Config Editor is pointing to your FFVIPER executable.




                   D:\FreeFalcon5\FFviper.exe




This can be selected using the BROWSE button



Drop Down Menus
“File”; “View”; “Tools”; “Help” – You should simply IGNORE these menus.
There is nothing there which is required or recommended.

Just open your FF Config Editor and make your choices. SIMPLE. ☺



FINDING YOUR OPTION                                                               FF Viper Configuration



In addition to the BROADER Settings Categories, there are also
many SUB-Categories to explore.

      FF Viper Configuration




                                                Make note of the “+” signs in some options.

                                                Clicking on this “+” will EXPAND the Option “tree”.

                                                When setting your FF Config Editor, make sure you
                                                have expanded every branch and made ALL of your
                                                choices before Saving and Exiting.




                                                61           F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Some FF VIPER Config Editor Options



 Large Strike Packages: This option will cause the ATO to generate 16
 ship strike packages if it can. You should use this option only if you
 have enough planes to generate these larger strike packages.
 Otherwise you may find the ATO will not generate many missions.

 Radar Jam Chevrons: Normally, if an aircraft is Jamming your radar,
 you will see a large “X” on your MFD. However, checking the Chevron
 Option puts a different type of icon on your Radar A/A MFD. It looks like
 a 'chevron'. In military terms the ‘chevron’ is the stripe on your sleeve. In
 your MFD, the ‘stripes’ will appear upside down...

 Disable Hi Altitude Fartiles: Select this option to reduce the “stair-step”
 line which appears on the terrain at far distances from High Altitudes.
 With this checked, “real tiles” are rendered instead of the less detailed
 “fartile”. The CPU has to work harder to display “real” tiles (rendering
 images that you cannot even see at that distance).

 Winds Aloft: Winds aloft will simulate wind effects at altitude. It will have
 an adverse effect on the accuracy of dropped ordnance, especially dumb
 bombs. Realistic, but – be sure to take wind speed and angle into
 account when considering targeting.

 Cumulus Cloud Options: Choose from a variety of different Cloud
 Textures. One may preview the texture by clicking on the “More
 Information” button in the Config. Editor. Our Beta-Squadron C/O
 recommends Option “5” .

 Sun Options: Choose from a variety of different Sun Textures. One may
 preview the texture by clicking on the “More Information” button in the
 Config. Editor. Our Beta-Squadron C/O recommends Sun “2”

 TE Editor Map Option: Whilst editing TE’s, some people find it easier to
 identify such objects as “roads” and “streams” on the Older Style Falcon
 UI Map. This config option allows you to switch between the current
 default UI Map, and the older style UI Map




                                62         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Digital Map Option: Some ‘pits have the Map as part of a “digital” type
display. An example would be the F-22 Raptor ‘pit. Selecting this option
gives a “digital” looking map display in the cockpit.

AWACS background: This option allows you to change the UI
background to one which simulates the Electronic Displays on an
AWACS jet. After “committing”, the full-colour map display – now similar
to an MFD display - is replaced by an all black background upon which
the Countries are outlined in green. .

Commit to Taxi Time: When selecting “Taxi”, this option sets the time -
in minutes - you will have spare upon entering the 3D world.. The default
setting is TWO (2) minutes. Other choices may be useful for MP, where
there are many players to organize. Also – if some pilots have slow
loading hardware, the extra minute may be convenient. All players
must use the SAME setting in MP.

Smart Combat Autopilot: With this option selected, your jet will follow
steerpoints and engage in combat – launching missiles at enemy jets,
and generally tooling about the skies fighting things. NOTE: In addition
to selecting this option, you’ll need to enter the UI Setup, and choose
“combat” from the Autopilot Dropdown Menu. Fantastic for making
videos, and for dev’ing purposes.

Less Stars / More Stars: This option changes the number and the
brightness of stars. See the Starry Starry Night Section for details.

TIR Minimum FOV: An important one for “Realism”. The choice of “45”
 would be the preferred option. With “45” chosen, the pilot may lean
 forward in his cockpit, and move his face closer to gauges, dials and
 Displays. With “5” chosen, one experiences the bizarre phenomenon of
 having the entire world ZOOM in, whenever one moves their head.
 Thus – the external world is zoomed along with the inside of the ‘pit. It
 is like leaning forward in your car, and having the distant mountains
 suddenly RUSH toward you. By choosing “45”, you will move your
 head realistically within your cockpit, whilst not affecting the outside
 world. The outside world may STILL be zoomed – of course – by using
 the mouse wheel or using the “L” key.




                             63         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
     A-4 SKYHAWK




The Skyhawk was designed in response to a US Navy call for a jet-powered attack aircraft to
replace the A-1 Skyraider. The result was an aircraft that weighed only half of the Navy's
specification and had a wing so compact that it did not need to be folded for carrier stowage. The
diminutive Skyhawk soon received the nicknames "Scooter," "Bantam Bomber," and - due to
performance - "Heinemann's Hot-Rod." The aircraft sports a low-mounted delta wing, tricycle
undercarriage, and a single turbojet engine in the rear fuselage, with intakes on the fuselage
sides. The tail is of cruciform design, with the horizontal stabilizer mounted above the fuselage.
Armament consists of two 20 mm Colt Mk 12 cannon, plus a large variety of bombs & rockets.
The design of the A-4 is a good example of the virtues of simplicity. The delta wing combines
speed and manoeuvrability with a large fuel capacity and small overall size. The leading edge
slats are designed to drop automatically at the appropriate speed by gravity and air pressure,
thereby requiring neither motors nor pilot input. The undercarriage does not penetrate the main
wing spar, so when retracted only the wheel itself is inside the wing; the undercarriage struts
housed in a fairing. The wings have automatic leading edge slats, operated by aerodynamic
pressure alone - again simple & effective and a weight saving feature.

The A-4 pioneered the concept of "buddy" self air-to-air refueling. This allowed the aircraft to be
used as a tanker for others of the same type, removing the need for different tanker aircraft - a
particular advantage when operating in remote locations.

In the event of hydraulic failure, the A-4 was designed to make an emergency landing, on the
two drop tanks nearly always carried by these planes..!! Such landings result in only minor
damage to the nose of the aircraft which can be repaired in less than an hour.

During design of the A4, Ed Heinemann is said to have had a large "K.I.S.S." sign put up on the
wall. The A-4 certainly is a shining example of the application of that principle to aircraft design.

       70   3D PITS                                       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
A-10 THUNDERBOLT




The A-10 Thunderbolt is designed for close air support of ground forces. It can be used
against all ground targets, including tanks and other armoured vehicles. The primary
mission of the A-10 is to provide day and night close air combat support for friendly land
forces and to act as forward air controller (FAC) to coordinate and direct friendly air
forces in support of land forces, It also possesses a limited capability to perform certain
types of interdiction. All of these missions may take place in a high or low threat
environment. The Air Force requirements documents emphasized payload, low altitude
flying capability, range and loiter capability, low speed manoeuvrability and weapons
delivery accuracy. The A-10 is slow enough to be an observation plane. This greatly
increases the A-10's effectiveness at protecting ground troops. The gun system consists
of the 30mm Gatling gun mechanism, double-ended linkless ammunition feed, storage
assembly and hydraulic drive system. The General Electric GAU-8/A 30mm seven
barrel cannon, specifically designed for the A-10, provides unmatched tank killing
capability. The gun fires armour-piercing projectiles capable of penetrating heavy
armour. It also fires a high explosive incendiary round, which is extremely effective
against soft skinned targets like trucks. The cannon fires at a rate of 4,200 rounds per
minute. The A-10's manoeuvrability, teamed with the gun's accuracy, allows the pilot
quick reaction with lethal effects. Other weapons include the AGM-65 Maverick and
AIM-9 Sidewinder missiles. The A-10 have excellent manoeuvrability at low air speeds
and altitude, and are highly accurate weapons-delivery platforms. The A-10s highly
accurate weapons delivery system makes it effective against all ground targets
including tanks and other armoured vehicles.




 72   3D PITS                                      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Harrier Jump Jet




 .



     The AV-8B Harrier is a single-seat, light attack aircraft that provides offensive air
     support to the Marine Air-Ground Task Force (MAGTF). By virtue of its Vertical/Short
     Take-Off or Landing (V/STOL) capability, the AV-8B can operate from a variety of
     amphibious ships, rapidly constructed expeditionary airfields, forward sites (e.g., roads),
     and damaged conventional airfields. This makes the aircraft particularly well-suited for
     providing dedicated close air support.

        •   Conduct close air support using conventional and specific weapons.
        •   Conduct deep air support, to include armed reconnaissance and air interdiction,
            using conventional and specific weapons.
        •   Conduct offensive and defensive anti-air warfare. This includes combat air patrol,
            armed escort missions, and offensive missions against enemy ground-to-air
            defences.
        •   Be able to operate and deliver ordnance at night and to operate under instrument
            flight conditions.
        •   Be able to deploy for extended operations employing aerial refuelling.
        •   Be able to deploy to and operate from carriers and other suitable seagoing
            platforms, advanced bases, expeditionary airfields, and remote tactical landing
            sites.

     The primary mission of the Harrier is a ground-attack fighter-bomber. In this role, a
     variety of external ordnance with maximum weight up to 5000 pounds may be carried,
     as well as two 30-mm cannons. The Royal Navy employs the aircraft in a fleet air-
     defense role; in this capacity, Sidewinder missiles are carried in addition to the cannon
     and various external stores. In naval use, the Harrier employs a short takeoff technique
     from a small carrier equipped with a ski-jump launching ramp; after its mission and at a
     much reduced weight, the aircraft makes a vertical landing on the carrier. This mode of
     operation is referred to as STOVL, short takeoff and vertical landing. The improved
     version of the Harrier, known as the AV-8B, was manufactured in the United States by
     McDonnell Douglas under an agreement with the British Aerospace Corporation

      74    3D PITS                                     F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
EF2000




The Eurofighter is a single-seat, twin-engine, agile combat aircraft designed for air-to-air,
air-to-ground and tactical reconnaissance roles. The design of Eurofighter Typhoon is
optimised for air dominance performance with high instantaneous and sustained turn rates,
and specific excess power. Special emphasis has been placed on low wing loading, high
thrust to weight ratio, excellent all round vision and carefree handling.

The use of Stealth technology is incorporated throughout the aircraft’s basic design.
Eurofighter’s high performance is matched by excellent all round vision and by sophisticated
attack, identification and defence systems which include the ECR 90 long range radar and
Infra Red Search and Track (IRST) system, advanced medium and short range air-to-air
missiles and a comprehensive electronic warfare suite to enhance weapon system
effectiveness and survivability. Eurofighter Typhoon is intentionally aerodynamically
unstable to provide extremely high levels of agility, reduced drag and enhanced lift. The
unstable design cannot be flown by conventional means and the pilot controls the aircraft
via a computerised ‘fly by wire’ system.

The Eurojet EJ200 military turbofan was designed specifically to match Eurofighter
Typhoon’s mission requirements. The overall design ensures a small lightweight engine with
the thrust and strength to match the typically on demand reheat temperatures generated
during combat. The EJ200 engine combines high thrust with low fuel consumption.

Eurofighter's air dominance supremacy and versatility as a multi-role combat aircraft is
marked by its highly potent and comprehensive air-to-surface attack capability.




   76   3D PITS                                     F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
F-104 STARFIGHTER




Because of its physical appearance and performance, the F-104 has often been called
the "missile with a man in it." Encounters with the MiG-15 in Korea caused a strong
outcry among Air Force fighter pilots for a cheap, lightweight, manoeuvrable, high-
performance fighter to confront future Soviet fighters. The result was the F-104, a fighter
that overemphasized rate of climb and brute speed. Intended as a point defence
interceptor, range was sacrificed for rate of climb. It used an exceptionally small wing
span of only 21 feet, and provided low speed lift through air bled from the engine and
vented over the wing. Designed as a supersonic superiority fighter, the F-104 was
produced in two major versions. Armed with a six-barrel M-61 20mm Vulcan cannon it
served as a tactical fighter and - additionally equipped with heat-seeking Sidewinder
missiles - as a day-night interceptor.

In 1952, C.L. "Kelly" Johnson designed the F-104; the first XF-104 making its initial flight
in 1954. It was the first aircraft to fly at twice the speed of sound and held numerous
airspeed and altitude records. 1958 - a world speed record of 1,404 mph; 1959 - a
world altitude record of 103,395 feet. The Starfighter was the first aircraft to hold
simultaneous official world records for speed, altitude and time-to-climb. Using an
accelerated loft technique, some F-104s have been flown to higher than 90,000 feet.

Like the F-16, the F-104 was selected for use by NATO allies. More than 1,700 F-104s
were built in the U.S. and abroad under the military aid program for various nations
including Canada, West Germany, Italy, Norway, the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark,
Greece, Turkey, Spain, Taiwan and Japan.

Some F-104s were modified to include a second cockpit for transition training and some
weapons delivery. A reconnaissance version also exists although it never served with
the USAF.


 80   3D PITS                                       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
     F-4 PHANTOM




The F-4 Phantom II is a two-seat, supersonic, long-range, all-weather fighter-bomber built by
McDonnell Douglas Corporation (originally McDonnell Aircraft Corporation). It was operated by the
US Navy, the USMC and later the USAF, from 1961 until 1995. It is still in service with other
nations. In service, it earned the nickname "Rhino" (a reference to both its prodigious nose and its
rhinoceros-like toughness). Its primary mission capabilities are: long range, high-altitude intercepts
utilizing air-to-air missiles; long-range attack missions utilizing conventional or nuclear weapons;
and, CAS missions utilizing a choice of bombs, rockets and missiles. First flown May 27, 1958, the
Phantom II was originally developed for US Navy fleet defence. The initial F4H-1 (later F-4B)
entered service in 1961. The USAF evaluated it (with the F-110A Spectre) for CAS, interdiction,
and counter-air operations and - in 1962 - approved a USAF version, the F-4C. The F-4C made its
first flight on May 27, 1963, and production deliveries began in November, 1963. The F4 went
through many upgrades. These include the USAF’s replacing the F-4D with the F-4E with an
internal M61 Vulcan 20 mm cannon and the conversion of 116 F-4Es for the SEAD "Wild Weasel"
role as the F-4G. Reconnaissance versions were also built, the RF-4C for the USAF, RF-4B for the
USMC, and the export RF-4E. In 1965, the first USAF Phantom IIs were sent to Vietnam. Early
versions lacked any gun armament. Coupled with the unreliability of the air-to-air missiles of the
time, this major drawback resulted in aircraft loss after they ran out of missiles. During the course
of the Vietnam War, its contemporaries, the MiG-19 and MiG-21, inflicted heavy losses on the F-4s
when the American aircraft were ambushed after returning from bombing assignments. This
prompted the USAF to introduce an M61 Vulcan 20 mm cannon in the nose of the aircraft, below
the radome (although no Navy or Marine Phantoms ever had an integral gun). This later version
was the mainstay of the USAF Phantom II forces. The last Phantoms in USAF service were retired
in December 2004 with the deactivation of the 20th Fighter Squadron, the Silver Lobos. The last
Phantoms in Marine Corps service were F-4S models of VMFA-112, retired in 1992 when VMFA-
112 transitioned to the F/A-18A.


      81    3D PITS                                      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
F-14 TOMCAT




The F-14 Tomcat is a supersonic, twin-engine, variable swing-wing, two-seat A/C designed
to attack and destroy enemy aircraft at night and in all weather conditions. The F-14 can
track up to 24 targets simultaneously with its advanced weapons control system; engaging
six with Phoenix AIM-54A missiles whilst continuing to scan the airspace. The Tomcat is the
only U.S. plane capable of carrying the long-range Phoenix missile, which can fire at targets
from distances of 80 miles. Armament also includes a mix of other air intercept missiles,
rockets and bombs. Manufactured by Grumman Aircraft Corporation, the F-14 employs
variable geometry wings to optimize aircraft performance throughout the flight envelope.
The F-14 swing-wing can be manually controlled by the pilot or adjusted automatically
according to the plane's state. They swing forward to allow the plane to land on tiny aircraft
carrier decks at relatively low speeds and backwards as the plane dashes for intercept
roles. The multiple tasks of navigation, target acquisition, ECM, and weapons firing are
divided between the pilot and the radar intercept officer (RIO). When the F-14 Tomcat
thunders off the aircraft carrier's deck into the sky, its wings automatically sweep back to a
60-degree angle as the two afterburning turbofan engines each kick out 27,000 pounds of
thrust, propelling the fighter at more than twice the speed of sound. Inside the wings and
fuselage, five internal fuel tanks must securely hold up to 9,000 litres of highly volatile jet
fuel under extremes of temperature, vibration, high G forces and other adverse conditions.
Overall, the Navy's Grumman F-14 Tomcat is an outstanding aircraft. Six long-range AIM-
54A Phoenix missiles can be guided simultaneously against six separate threat aircraft at
long ranges by the F-14's AWG-9 weapons control system. For medium-range combat,
Sparrow missiles are carried; Sidewinders and a 20mm cannon are available for
dogfighting. In the latter role, the Tomcat's variable-sweep wings give the F-14 a combat
manoeuvring capability that could not have been achieved with a "standard" fixed wing.




   83    3D PITS                                      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
 F-15 EAGLE




The F-15 is an all-weather, extremely manoeuvrable, tactical fighter designed to gain and
maintain air superiority in aerial combat. The Eagle's air superiority is achieved through a mixture
of manoeuvrability and acceleration, range, weapons and avionics. The F-15's superior
manoeuvrability and acceleration are achieved through high engine thrust-to-weight ratio and low
wing loading. It features a multi-mission avionics system, a tactical electronic-warfare system,
"IFF" system, electronic countermeasures, and an onboard computer. The F-15's versatile pulse-
Doppler radar system can look up at high-flying targets and down at low-flying targets without
being confused by ground clutter. It can detect and track aircraft and small high-speed targets at
distances beyond visual range down to close range, and at altitudes down to tree-top level. The
radar feeds target information into the central computer for effective weapons delivery. For close-
in dog fights, the radar automatically acquires enemy aircraft, and this information is projected on
the head-up display. The Fiber Optic Towed Decoy (FOTD) provides aircraft protection against
modern radar-guided missiles to supplement traditional radar jamming equipment. The device is
towed at varying distances behind the aircraft while transmitting a signal like that of a threat
radar. A variety of air-to-air weaponry can be carried by the F-15: AIM-7F/M, AIM-120, AIM-9L/M
Sidewinder, and an internal 20mm Gatling gun (with 940 rounds of ammunition). AIM-9X puts the
F-15 in the air superiority position in all arenas. The F-15/AIM-9X weapon system allows a high
off-boresight targeting capability. Low-drag, conformal fuel tanks were especially developed for
the F-15C and D models. These tanks reduce the need for in-flight refueling on global missions
and increase time in the combat area. All external stations for munitions remain available with the
tanks in use. The F-15 Eagle began its life in the mid 1960s as a dedicated air superiority fighter,
as no such AC had existed since the F-86 Sabre.

An industry-wide competition ended on December 23, 1969 when McDonnell Douglas was
awarded the contract for the F-15.


      84   3D PITS                                      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
F-16 FIGHTING FALCON




The F-16 Fighting Falcon is a compact, multi-role fighter aircraft. It is highly manoeuvrable and
has proven itself in air-to-air combat and air-to-surface attack. It provides a relatively low-cost,
high-performance weapon system for the United States and allied nations. In an air combat
role, the F-16's manoeuvrability and combat radius (distance it can fly to enter air combat, stay,
fight and return) exceed that of all potential threat fighter aircraft. It can locate targets in all
weather conditions and detect low flying aircraft in radar ground clutter. In an air-to-surface role,
the F-16 can fly more than 500 miles (860 kilometres), deliver its weapons with superior
accuracy, defend itself against enemy aircraft, and return to its starting point. An all-weather
capability allows it to accurately deliver ordnance during non-visual bombing conditions. USAF
F-16 multi-mission fighters were deployed to the Persian Gulf in 1991 in support of Operation
Desert Storm, where more sorties were flown than with any other aircraft. These fighters were
used to attack airfields, military production facilities, Scud missiles sites and a variety of other
targets. The original F-16 was designed as a lightweight air-to-air day fighter. Air-to-ground
responsibilities transformed the first production F-16s into multi-role fighters. The empty weight
of the Block 10 F-16A is 15,600 pounds. The empty weight of the Block 50 is 19,200 pounds.
The A in F-16A refers to a Block 1 through 20 single-seat aircraft. The B in F-16B refers to the
two-seat version. The letters C and D were substituted for A and B, respectively, beginning with
Block 25. Block is an important term in tracing the F-16's evolution. Basically, a block is a
numerical milestone. The block number increases whenever a new production configuration for
the F-16 is established. Not all F-16s within a given block are the same. They fall into a number
of block subsets called mini-blocks. These sub-block sets are denoted by capital letters
following the block number (Block 15S, for example). From Block 30/32 on, a major block
designation ending in 0 signifies a General Electric engine; one ending in 2 signifies a Pratt &
Whitney engine.



     85    3D PITS                                      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
FA-18 HORNET




 The F/A-18 "Hornet" is a supersonic, single seat (A and C models) or tandem seat (B
 and D models), twin engine, all weather, night, combined fighter and attack aircraft and
 can be refuelled in flight. The F/A-18 multi-mission aircraft can operate from either
 aircraft carriers or land bases. The F/A-18 fills a variety of roles: air superiority, fighter
 escort, suppression of enemy air defences, reconnaissance, forward air control, close
 and deep air support, and day and night strike missions. The F/A-18 Hornet replaced
 the F-4 Phantom II fighter and A-7 Corsair II light attack jet, and also replaced the A-6
 Intruder as these aircraft were retired during the 1990s. The combat-proven F/A-18
 Hornet is the first tactical aircraft designed from its inception to carry out both air-to-air
 and air-to-ground missions. The F/A-18, (models A, B, C and D), can deliver
 conventional air-to-air, air-to-ground decoy expendables, and can carry airborne control
 pods for various missions. The combination of excellent thrust-to-weight ratio, and
 manoeuvrability offers an unmatched combat capability. A key aspect of the Hornet's
 popularity with pilots is the ease with which the aircraft can be converted from fighter to
 strike mode and back again; it's as easy as flipping a switch. During Operation Desert
 Storm, F/A-18s routinely performed fighter and strike missions on the same sortie.
 Fulfilling a variety of roles-air superiority, fighter escort, suppression of enemy air
 defences, reconnaissance, forward air control, close air support, and day and night
 strike missions-the F/A-18 has proven to be the most versatile combat aircraft in
 service.



    86    3D PITS                                       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
MIRAGE 2000-C




The first Mirage 2000 to go into service was the single-seat "Mirage 2000C" interceptor / air
combat variant. There were four single-seat prototypes, including the initial Mirage 2000
prototype mentioned above. The first production Mirage 2000C flew in November 1982. Initial
deliveries were in 1983. The first operational squadron was formed in 1984, the 50th
anniversary of the French Armee de l'Air (AdA). Primary armaments of the Mirage 2000C in the
interceptor role were the Matra Super 530 medium-range semi-active radar-guided air to air
missile (AAM) on the inboard wing pylons, and the Matra Magic short-range infrared-seeking
AAM on the outboard wing pylons. The Mirage 2000C could also carry air-to-ground stores,
such as iron bombs, cluster bombs, or Matra 68-millimeter rocket pods, in its secondary strike
role. It had no smart munitions capability, though it could carry laser-guided bombs (LGBs) if
another aircraft or ground forces provide designation. Standard colours consisted of light gray
on the bottom and a disruptive pattern of light gray and gray blue on top. Armament was
substantially improved by the new Matra MICA AAM, which is now the AdA's standard AAM.
MICA stands for "Missile d'Interception, de Combat et d'Autodefense / Intercept, Combat, &
Self-Defense Missile". It is a lightweight and highly agile weapon, with a thrust-vectoring nozzle.
There are two versions, including the heat-seeking "MICA IR" and the radar guided "MICA EM".
The infrared seeker on the MICA IR can in principle provide video to the cockpit to act as an
infrared search and track sensor. The radar-guided MICA EM variant provides a "fire and
forget" capability. However, the Mirage 2000C only carries the MICA IR, there being no support
for the MICA EM in the aircraft's weapons control system.




     87   3D PITS                                      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
     the RAFALE




The Dassault Rafale is a relatively small airplane (it does not need folding wings to fit on a
carrier) that carries a very heavy load. The Rafale has an operating empty weight of around
22,000 pounds and was initially designed with a maximum take-off weight of 49,600 pounds.
That figure has now been increased to 54,000 pounds, and Dassault is preparing a further jump
to 60,000 pounds. Without fuel or weapons, a Rafale weighs some 3,000 pounds more than a
F-16C, but it can take off 10,000 pounds heavier. This allows the Rafale to carry as much as
21,000 pounds of external stores in addition to 9,000 pounds of internal fuel. With twin
conformal fuel tanks holding a total of 600 US gallons of fuel - designed and flight-tested by
Dassault during its campaign to win Korea's fighter contest - the Rafale can perform a 1,000-
nm-radius strike mission, carrying both heavy air-to-surface weapons and air-to-air missiles.
Despite these capabilities, the Rafale has failed to win a single export order to date, although it
entered hard-fought campaigns in the United Arab Emirates and Korea. Singapore is getting
close to a decision on a future high-end fighter aircraft. The Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter (JSF) has apparently scooped much of the available world market, at least for now, so
Singapore, which wants airplanes before the JSF is ready, is a unique opportunity for European
contenders, such as the Eurofighter Typhoon and its French rival, the Rafale. The carrier-based
Rafale M has become the first Rafale variant to be delivered. The first Rafale squadron, Flotille
12F, was formed in May 2001 and is now working up aboard the Charles de Gaulle . Seven
aircraft were deployed on the carrier in the Indian Ocean earlier this summer, and the squadron
is expected to be declared fully operational shortly, with ten aircraft. According to French
executives, some unofficial training engagements have already taken place between Rafales
and US Navy F/A-18s. On June 9, 2002, Rafale Ms of the French Navy operating from the
Charles de Gaulle participated in a joint patrol with American fighters. Although the assignment
was for reconnaissance over the tense India-Pakistan border and no shots were fired, it marked
the official combat debut of the aircraft .


     90   3D PITS                                      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
        the TORNADO




The Tornado IDS resulted from a 1968 feasibility study undertaken by the Belgian, British, Canadian,
Dutch, Italian and West German governments for an advanced warplane to be designed, developed
and built as collaborative venture with the object of providing the air forces of the partner nations
with a STOL warplane able to undertake the close air support, battlefield interdiction, long-range
interdiction, counter-air attack, air-superiority, interception and air defence, reconnaissance and
naval strike roles. With the new warplane's roles finalized, the task of the design team was to create
an airframe/power plant/electronic combination able to fulfil the resulting requirement. This
demanded five core capabilities: the ability to take-off and land in very short distances, even if the
main runways were damaged; the ability to fly at high speed at very low level over long ranges
without significant degradation of crew performance; the ability to undertake low-level penetrations of
hostile air space by day and/or night under all weather conditions; the ability to hit any target with
complete accuracy in a first-pass attack; and, the ability to attain high supersonic speed at all
altitudes. The aerodynamic core of the airframe demanded by these capabilities was a variable-
geometry wing: in its minimum-sweep configuration of 25 degrees this would generate high lift at
takeoff and landing, and in its maximum-sweep configuration of 68 degrees it would produce low
wave drag for high supersonic speed as well as low gust response for a smooth low-level ride. Flight
control was exercised via a fly-by-wire system operating in conjunction with a command stability
augmentation system. The airframe was schemed in association with the power plant and
electronics. The power plant was to comprise a pair of reheated turbofans of very low specific fuel
consumption for long range, and high afterburning thrust for maximum acceleration at take-off, and
fitted with thrust-reversers for maximum reduction of the landing run. The avionics were based on an
extremely advanced nav/attack system with fully automatic terrain-following capability to ensure all-
weather penetration capability. Structural design was completed in August 1972, and the first of nine
prototypes flew in April 1974. The Tornado finally entered service in July 1980.


        91   3D PITS                                      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
MiG-29 FULCRUM




 The Mig29 is one of the first Russian aircraft that was considered by many to be equal to
 those in the west. It incorporated a number of innovative technologies, some of which had
 never been seen on any western fighter. It also reflected a change in the Russian air tactics.
 For example, previously there had been a very heavy reliance on command and guidance
 from the ground, therefore there was little need for a cockpit with an excellent view, and
 since it was easier to make them smaller for aerodynamic reasons as was the trend with the
 Mig-21, Mig-23 and Mig-25. But the Mig 29 was designed with a large bubble canopy similar
 to those on most western fighters suggesting a change in tactics. The Mig 29 Fulcrum is of a
 comparable size to the F/A-18 Hornet. It first became operational in early 1985 and since
 then has been exported to a number of countries. About 345 of these counter air fighters
 are in service with the Russian tactical air forces and 110 with the naval forces. The Mig 29
 has a high level of manoeuvrability and the coherent pulse Doppler radar (which can track
 up to 10 targets simultaneously at 69km) combined with a laser range finder and infra-red
 search and track (IRST) linked to the Helmet Mounted Sight (HMS) make it an excellent
 close in fighter. The two engines on the Mig29 are the Klimov/Sarkisov RD-33 each
 providing 18,000 pounds of thrust. Even if one engine is damaged and providing no thrust
 the Mig 29 is able to accelerate and start on one engine. The engines have proven their
 ability to take rough handling with manoeuvres such as tail slides which were performed by
 Anatolij Kvocur at Farnbourough in 1988.




    95   3D PITS                                      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
 AN-2 COLT




History: The An-2 Colt has been used as a paratroop transport, glider tug, navigation trainer, utility
transport and light bomber. Despite being a versatile and adaptable machine, the large, fabric-covered
An-2 biplane remains firmly rooted in much earlier days of aviation.

The An-2 prototype was first flown on August 31, 1947, and the aircraft is still in production, although
the Antonov Bureau has not produced any since 1960. The An-2s designer, Oleg Antonov, had been
an aircraft designer during the Second World War. He then formed his own bureau with the intention
of creating an aircraft capable of almost any task. He succeeded. Originally designed for the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry in the former Soviet Union, the aircraft was soon adopted by the Soviet Air
Force and built for its client states. It is ideally suited to less developed countries because it requires
little maintenance and is easy to fly.

The An-2's design gives it extremely short take-off and landing (STOL) capabilities. This is partly
achieved not only by the high-lift double wings, but by the use of the drooping ailerons which can be
lowered 20 degrees to compliment the flaps. The wings are covered in fabric aft of the front spar and
the tailplane is also covered with fabric, making field repairs easy. It has a crew of two in a heated
crew compartment, and a single bay running the length of the aircraft.

The An-2 is still in service with over 30 air forces and has been used by Aeroflot and other eastern
airlines. With the collapse of the communist regime over a decade ago, a small number of An-2s have
begun to appear on the civilian rosters in Europe and the United States, although the type is difficult to
register in the United States due to regulatory issues.

AKA: Annushka ("Little Annie"); Big Ant; Colt (NATO code name); Kukuruznick ("Corn-Eater")


        96    3D PITS                                       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Reverse Thrust
A REMINDER from the F.A.Q. Section of the FF4.0 Manual…




Tap 'k' twice. (You'll see a confirmation in the upper right of the screen.)




           Tapping 'k' once more will disengage the Thrust Reverser.




Remember - Like sex: The more thrust you apply, the MORE you’ll slow down…




                                            101         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
  Multi-Player
                                 - Connection by URL, allowing dynamic IPs.
                                 - Allows client connection behind routers without
                                   need for port forwarding.
                                 - Dynamic bandwidth control, based on game mode
                                   and number of players connected.

                                 - Several bug/CTD fixes.

                                 - Completely new positional update system
                                 - Adjustments to several update data priorities,
                                   specially when player related.
                                 - Fixed some synchronization issues in UI
                                   (schedule, munitions).




FreeFalcon 5.0 features some significant enhancements to our
Multiplayer approach.

This section will assist in getting you connected to the On-Line
Falcon Experience.

On-Line MP Help   http://www.freefalcon.com/forum/forumdisplay.php?f=9




   Multiplayer                      126        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
derStef’s                  -    ‘How to Join a Game’
 1. Organize your flights in the "MP scheduling thread":
     http://www.freefalcon.com/forum/showthread.php?t=14532
 2. Get onto ‘Teamspeak’ (see Teamspeak Section in this Companion for details)
 3. Talk to the guys and get the server IP. Write it down on a paper. If you are using a
     vpn prog like ‘Hamachi’, you have to join the right network, so - ask the guys for the
     address.
 4. Make sure that you are using the right Config file (FFviper.cfg)
     You can find it on the first page of the "MP scheduling thread".
 5. Start FF5; make sure that you are in the correct theater; check your settings.
 6. When the server is up, go to COMMS, enter the IP, select "connect a client" & hit
     SAVE. Then hit “connect”. Click on the small "connection established" window.
 7. Hit COMMS again to get into the "chat/comms lobby". Once you are in the lobby,
     you should NOT jump out anymore, it can bring the whole game down.
 8. Write down the TOTAL number of guys, that you can actually see in the lobby,
     (Including “server”).
 9. Wait until EVERYBODY is in the lobby, then the “Server” goes and starts the TE,
     DF or campaign. Wait until he calls: "TE/DF/Campaign is up and the clock is
     stopped."
 10. Connect in the same order as you are listed in the “chat/comms lobby”. Wait until
     you are the first listed in the lobby, then go to TE/DF/Campaign, ONLINE and select
     the server's game.
 11. Check the sim settings. If there is nothing red - hit “OK/Commit”.




Multiplayer                              127        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
 12. Once you see the 2D map, immediately STOP the clock and move your pilot out of
     the first slot where you have been put in. (It doesn't matter where you go; just go
     away from the first slot. This will free the slot for the next guy who joins.)
 13. Call out your "callsign”, and “clock is stopped". Then - the next guy can join in.
     (REPEAT Steps 10 ~ 13, as necessary).
 14. Join the flight/slot that you want to fly.
     IMPORTANT: Do NOT hit: “BRIEFING”, “WEAPONS SCREEN” , or “RECON
     button”. At the moment, this is CRITICAL in Multi-Player. DO NOT CHANGE
     STEERPOINTS OR WEAPONS IN A MP GAME.
     If you must make changes: Do it in single-player, save it, then load it up in MP.
 15. Listen carefully to the briefing by the Lead Pilot. Don't ask ‘dumb’ questions. ☺
 16. When you are ready to go, call out: "Callsign - Ready".
 17. Finally you'll "Commit" in the SAME order as you connected into the game.
     You can hit "COMMS" to see the "chat/comms lobby" again.
 18. Hit “Commit” and choose "TAXI" and call out: "Callsign, Takeoff/commit TAXI".
 19. Once you are in the 3D world, call out: "Callsign, IN THE PIT".




                     Have a nice flight...!

Multiplayer                             128        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
derStef’s                     MP Tips’n’Hints:
- Do not use external views too extensively. It often leads to CTDs. In campaign it is
often a good idea to DISABLE external views in the settings. This also injects more
realism inot the flight.

- Do not join flights-in-progress. Once the pilots are in the 3D World, do not attempt to
join that flight.

- If you have a CTD, remain “out” of that flight. Do not rejoin. Rejoining can easily
bring the whole game crumbling down. It can cause MASSIVE sync problems.

- Attempt to always fill a flight. The synchronization in that flight will be better optimized.
For example, let’s assume there are four (4) Pilots. It is far better to join the SAME flight,
as a 4-ship of Human Pilots, than for each person to join a separate flight, and take on
three AI wingmen. The latter option offers far less “synchronization” in the 3D world.

- Edits should be done by the Server Pilot. If adjustments (such as adjusting
steerpoints or weapons) are necessary, it is best that the “server pilot” do that in Single
player mode; then save the game; then start the server.


     Following the Tips outlined above will lead to the ultimate MP experience...!



Dogfight:
        Always use “Team Furball”

        ONLY the server is allowed to change planes or the weapons/range/score
        settings. (should be done before the other guys join in)

        The “commit/take off” sequence is a bit different here:
        The first guy in the order of the chat/comms lobby will hit commit,
        Others wait until they see written in the lobby: “Callsign, entered arena”

        THEN the others can join as usual.




   General DF Rule               First pass cold, then the fight’s on...!!




 Multiplayer                                129        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Skratch’s                       Random Tips’n’Hints:
Configuring Falcon 4.0

Make sure that EVERYONE has consistent Falcon4 configurations & FF Config Editor
settings. It is especially useful to ensure that everyone has built-in voice comms either ON
or OFF. Likewise, all users should have JetNet Uplink either ON or OFF.

Lots of other options are also significant, and need to be kept consistent

Voice COMMS

FF uses DirectX 8 Directplay Voice. Therefore, DirectX 8 or later must be installed on your
system (see: www.microsoft.com/directx). In addition, you must initialize your
microphone by running Voicesetup.exe (in the “UTILITIES” folder).

Real-time voice communication between players greatly enhances online game play.
You can now use "real" radio to communicate with other players!
If you want to use voice comms, enable it in the FF Config Editor

(If editing manually   Go to “// use voicecom” and “set g_bvoicecom “1)

Communicating in the User Interface

In the User Interface, use the keys "F1" and "F2" to activate radio comms on two different
channels (hold the appropriate key while talking - it acts like a transmit button on a radio):

• Channel 1: Guard (Other team members in the UI or the 3D world)
• Channel 2: Everybody who is in UI


Communicating in the 3D World

Once flying in the 3D world, the keys used to transmit are the ones defined in the
keystrokes.key file and will radio on whatever channel COM1 or COM2 is set to on the
UFC. The audio volume of each channel can be adjusted by using the knobs on the audio
panel in the cockpit. The available frequencies in the 3D world are similar to those in the
original Falcon 4.0:

• Flight: Other flight members who have at least one radio set to flight
• Package: Other package members who have at least one channel set to package
• Guard: Other team members will hear (even though there is no radio set on guard)
• Broadcast: Everybody connected to the server (doesn't matter if in 3D or User Interface)
• Tower: Others who have the same takeoff base and at least one radio set to tower.

To change frequency, select COM1 or COM2 from the ICP. Then use [Alt-z] to switch
channels.




 Multiplayer                                 130        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Fly-Any-Plane In MP Dogfight

The Dogfight module now allows for every online player to fly whatever aircraft is available.
For example: If four online players want to fly 2 F-15s vs. 2 MIG-29s (or any other
combination), this is now possible…! For this to work correctly, the following procedure
must be followed.

Note: The host alone must make all the changes listed below. If any client does this, it will not
work and the client or host may CTD. The host is the person who started the Dogfight module from
the COMMS lobby.

To fly any aircraft in Dogfight, the host must:

1. Follow the normal procedures for connection setup and entering Dogfight module.
2. When in the Dogfight lobby with each player on the proper team, right click on a player's
   aircraft. This displays this player's dogfight menu.
3. On the player's dogfight menu, navigate down Change Aircraft to the desired aircraft.
4. When the cursor is over the desired aircraft, left click the aircraft. The dogfight menu will
    close and the aircraft icon will change to the selected aircraft.
5. Repeat this for each aircraft as necessary.
6. After all changes are made and each player is ready to fly, the host must be the first one
   to select "Fly." The other players are to follow only after the host has clicked Fly.

* Note 1: Changes do not always appear immediately for the clients.

Though the host sees the changes properly on his computer screen, the clients may take
several minutes to update. Everything will still work correctly though the clients do not see
their aircraft icon change to the new aircraft selected.


* Note 2: The following step is mandatory to avoid CTDs for clients…!

Setting Up A Campaign:

When a host starts a new campaign, the clock stops and the priorities setup screen
appears. This allows the host to configure the campaign as desired from the beginning.
The important thing is that clients must wait for joining until the host has set the
campaign priorities!


Dedicated Server mode:

• Using the option "MP Server mode" in the FF Config Editor, you can put FF into a
  dedicated Multiplayer Server mode.
  Clicking the box in the editor next to “MP Server Mode” enables this.

• Using the sub-option "MP Host all units", the server will have the full CPU load of all
  aggregated and deaggregated units and the network traffic they afford. This option is
  designed to be useful for a fast CPU server with a high bandwidth hosting many players
  with low bandwidth connections.




 Multiplayer                                 131         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Dedicated Voice Server

If you want to host large multiplayer games with more than a few players, it is a good idea
to setup a separate voice server (Use the voiceserver.exe to setup a dedicated voice host).
No matter how many players, this host will use mixing techniques to reduce bandwidth
load to the clients to max 3.2 kb.

To use a voiceserver, the clients need to point to the host's IP address by setting the
g_stvoicehostip variable in the config file (i.e. set g_stvoicehostip "130.123.33.23")
A mixing server requires some CPU power so it's not recommended to run the
voiceserver.exe while playing Falcon on the same computer. In this case, just run Falcon
normally - the Falcon built-in host will act as a forwarding server which doesn't require that
much CPU power.

Choosing the server

Now decide amongst your online MP buddies who has the best online MP connection to
be the server and then calculate how many clients will be possible.

• For the server, you need both high bandwidth and stability/consistency.

• To determine how many clients a server can support, do a rule of thumb calculation and
figure 33 kb for each client. Therefore, divide the Server bandwidth by 33 to get
approximately how many clients can be supported by that server. Do not try to support
more clients than the bandwidth can sustain: Major warping and players getting dropped
are usually indications that you need to try again with fewer clients, smaller "-bandwidth"
settings or both.

Note that the Server host is the person who *HOSTS* the Dogfight or TE or Campaign
mission. The Server is *NOT* the person who puts their IP address (or the popular 0.0.0.0
IP) in the UI and has others connect to him. So, the person with the fastest online
connection that you want to be the Server must also host the mission. It doesn't really
matter much who hosts the connection, since the person hosting the mission will
automatically be the Server and all others will be Clients.

About voice-comms

If you use the built-in voice comms in FF, note that - due to MS DirectX features - the voice
server host is the connection host person who puts in their own IP address (in the UI) and
NOT the person hosting the mission (This does not apply if you use Roger Wilco or other
voicecomms and have disabled the built-in comms).

Also note that the voice comm server does NOT work from behind routers and NAT.
This is a limitation of MS DirectX DirectVoice, so the voice comm. server must be directly
on the Internet and cannot be a client behind a router.




 Multiplayer                                132        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Starting a flight

When committing from the UI to the flight to start the mission, one player at a time should
enter instead of everyone at once. Note, this can still create chaos on taxiways.
When a player clicks his "Fly" button, the other players will automatically receive the
message "is committing now", from him.

Be prepared to stop your aircraft from rolling and be alert for other moving aircraft.
If possible, it's a good idea to stagger flight times so they won't occur too close together.



Router / Firewall Issues

If you have an external router or firewall, you most likely need to open up UDP protocol on
some ports to allow Falcon to work through it (See your router or firewall documentation on
how to open up or forward ports).

• For Online Multiplayer: UDP on ports 2935 and 2934

• For internal Voice Comms: UDP on 2936 and 2937

Doesn't work...? Perhaps try Teamspeak (see next section) or Roger Wilco.




* To fly MP - DISABLE WINDOWS FIREWALL *




 Multiplayer                                133         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Khronik’s                           Chronic MP for Dummies
Having the opportunity to fly with another human in FreeFalcon has always been
considered a luxury and a privilege. A sim as complex as this already offers much depth to
the virtual pilot seeking a total fighter-simulation experience. Multiplayer can take this to
the next level. With - of course - a little work, sweat, and (hopefully) without a hammer




Basics of Falcon Data Communication…
Firstly, it’s important to understand how Falcon communicates in multiplayer. Falcon uses
a UDP traffic protocol to transmit and receive data through the internet. The reasons for
the choice of this communication protocol are beyond the scope of this article.

Unfortunately, UDP traffic is rarely used these days in modern applications, and - as such
– is not automatically "open" by default on most routers and firewalls. Actually, most DOS
(Denial Of Service) attacks are UDP based. So it’s not so surprising that your router is
paranoid about UDP traffic.


UDP from Wikpedia         .

User Datagram Protocol (UDP) is one of the core protocols of the Internet protocol suite. Using UDP,
programs on networked computers can send short messages sometimes known as datagrams (using
Datagram Sockets) to one another. UDP is sometimes called the Universal Datagram Protocol. It was
designed by David P. Reed in 1980.

 UDP does not guarantee reliability or ordering in the way that TCP does. Datagrams may arrive out of
order, appear duplicated, or go missing without notice. Avoiding the overhead of checking whether
every packet actually arrived makes UDP faster and more efficient, at least for applications that do not
need guaranteed delivery. Time-sensitive applications often use UDP because dropped packets are
preferable to delayed packets. UDP's stateless nature is also useful for servers that answer small
queries from huge numbers of clients. Unlike TCP, UDP is compatible with packet broadcast (sending
to all on local network) and multicasting (send to all subscribers).



 Multiplayer                                     134         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Routers & Firewalls
If you do not have both a firewall and a router you can disregard this Section, and skip
directly to the Game Configuration Section (pg. 115). Keep in mind - most DSL
receivers (modems for the old people) usually have a built in firewall that will prevent
falcon from connecting and/or will cause connection issues.

Preparing For Router Configuration...

Though there are too many router models and makes to be able to give a detailed tutorial
for all, there is a common procedure for most.

First we must identify your local IP. One method is mentioned on pg.108
Another easy way to check this is to use the IPCONFIG command in a DOS box.

   i.   Call up the DOS box by hitting TASKBAR / START
  ii.   Then         RUN
 iii.   Type in      cmd (A DOS box should appear with a command prompt.)
 iv.    Enter        ipconfig
  v.    Then         Hit ENTER.

Details concerning all network connections will scroll.

What’s important is the IP address (above the subnet mask) for the device your system
uses to connect to the internet (usually a LAN card).
This should begin with 192.168 with 2 other octets. This is your "local IP".




  There might be more than one network device connected so be sure to identify the one
                    that connects to the router / internet connection.




 Multiplayer                               135            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Connecting To Your Router...
Armed with our "Local IP", we now need to port forward (or allow access) from your router
to your computers local IP. To do so we need to enter the routers admin interface. Open
your web browser and enter your routers address.




Ninety-nine percent of the time this will be : 192.168.1.1 or 192.168.0.1. ( if your local IP
had a 1 for its 3rd octet then the router's address will be 192.168.1.1 for example) .
It should then ask for your login / pass. 1




At this point Id suggest taking a look at portforward.com for more information on how to
setup your particular router model for port forwarding falcon.

Find your routers port forwarding menu…!




1
    If you have never changed this, there is often a default manufacturer's login/pass documented in your routers manual

    Multiplayer                                           136           F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Ports To Forward… Port Forwarding is required only if you want to act as a
Host/Server. For flying as a Client, Port Forwarding isn't required…!

UDP 2934 – 2935

UDP 2936 - 2937 (for in game voice comms, optional)

What we’re looking to do is to allow your router to forward UDP traffic on ports 2934 and
2935 (2936/2937 for comms) to your “Local IP”, which we found earlier with IPCONFIG.
Some routers can do this with only one entry. Other need more.
The picture on the previous page shows an example from a linksys router.


Setting-Up a Static Local IP:

This is an optional step, but is handy for those who have multiple computers connected to
their routers. In our last step we defined our "Local IP" and port forwarded UDP Falcon
ports to that particular address. Unfortunately most routers assign their IP dynamically as
devices are detected/connected, so in the future your "Local IP" might change. Setting a
static IP will keep a predefined IP entered by us so that it is not randomly assigned by your
router.


To set a static IP on your system –

     Browse to control panel / network devices.
     Double click the network device that connects you to the internet and/or router.
     Under the GENERAL tab double click on Internet Protocol (TCP/IP).


This will bring up the foreground window in the screen shot below.




 •    Chose an address
      starting with the same
      3 octets as your local.

 •    Choose a value
      between 10 and 255.

 •    Keep the 255.255.255.0
      as default subnet mask.

 •    Your gateway and DNS
      are the same as your
      router's address.




 Multiplayer                                137        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
G a m e              C o n f i g u r a t i o n                      S e c t i o n


 Due to improvements in the MP code, FreeFalcon / RV no longer needs a bandwidth
 setting in game. Any basic DSL or Cable connection should suffice to join an MP
 mission. Hosting an MP server, however, has a much higher bandwidth requirement,
 and would need enough to simultaneously cover the combined clients




IMPORTANT *
Before attempting to connect to a multiplayer session, be sure to have matched your
client's FF Config settings with the server’s.
Any changes to the Server’s FF Config must be mirrored by all clients.


Connecting to a Falcon Host:

To begin hit the COMMS section from the main menu screen.




 Multiplayer                             138        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
           Enter the host's IP into the IP entry box. Be sure to select connect as a client.




         FF5.0 now allows for DNS based host addresses. i.e. "falconserver.com" types. 2

                  Once connected you will receive a visual confirmation from the UI.




2
    A falcon host is anyone that has connected as server and has begun either a DF / TE / CAM.


    Multiplayer                                          139           F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
To discover the host's session, select its game type (DF/TE/CAM) then browse to the
ONLINE tab. Within seconds the host’s session(s) should be listed.

Clicking on the multiplayer session will bring up the airbase / squadron map.
This is where you can select which airbase you would like to fly from.

If you would like to fly together, it’s important to select the same airbase / squadron as
the person you wish to connect with.

It is not possible to join a flight outside your squadron. To do so, you must:

   i.   Exit the session
  ii.   Reconnect
 iii.   Select the new squadron.


With your airbase and squadron selected, you can now click on the commit button.




          The “commit” button will now enable you to proceed to the ROE menu…




 Multiplayer                               140         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
During this stage, it is important to match the "server authorized" settings on the left side.

Any setting enforced by the server must be matched. Once done hit “OK”.



Welcome to the campaign planning / FRAG order.


                                                                     You should be able to
                                                                     simply chose a flight;
                                                                     selecting one of the
                                                                     seats from the flight.

                                                                     Chat with clients is
                                                                     possible through the
                                                                     comms button.


                                                                     When flying with other
                                                                     human pilots in any
                                                                     mission type it is good
                                                                     practice to not commit
                                                                     before the lead. See
                                                                     Point #17 on the
                                                                     following page




 Multiplayer                                141         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Snail’s                Guide to Multiplayer
The multiplayer sexion*

(* Multiplayer can be the most sexy part of
Falcon4)

So, you have friends who like to fly
FreeFalcon online with you. That is both scary
(your faults can be easily noticed) and BIG
fun at the same time.

How do you setup a multiplayer mission (TE,
Dogfight or Campaign)?

When you fly online, there is one computer which acts as the “Server”. The rest of the
computers are “Clients”.

The first one to take action is the “Server”. Who should act as the “Server”…? Usually the
person with the fastest and most stable internet connection. This pilot should discover, and
make a note of his IP number. The clients will need that information to join.

H O W      T O     F I N D     Y O U R          I P




                                                               START Control Panel
                                                               Network Connections
                                                               Connection Name Support




 Multiplayer                                  142     F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Suggestion: use a program like TeamSpeak to have voice communication with each other.
This is not only useful for flying, but it can help during the setup process…! 3


Snail’s Slow Step x Step:
The server chooses ‘Comms’ from the main menu. There he can ‘connect as server’.
The server does NOT have to fill in an IP number. Then he connects.

After the server has connected to itself, the clients can join.
They have to fill in the server’s IP and ‘join as client’.

Suggestion: if you plan to fly often with the same server, you can save the IP number in
this screen.

After committing you get a message from the ‘commlink’.
You can click that one. (Note: Bandwidth settings are no longer needed).

Now the server can choose ‘Comms’ again.
He steps into a chat window that’s often referred to as: ‘the first chat’.
Here he can see who has joined the game, and - by typing - he can do a primary check
that – connection-wise - all is well, so far.

If it hasn’t yet been done, this is ALSO the moment to check if all pilots are in the same
theatre…! No need to explain why this is crucial.

Clients wait here until called.

Next step for the server is the choice of the ‘game’: TE, Campaign or just a fun Dogfight.

The Server chooses the game as he normally would in Single Player.
After committing, he gets a new screen. Here the restrictions for the game can be set.
(e.g. if he doesn’t check ‘labels’, no other pilot will be able to choose labels…)

After an “OK” on the desired MP settings, the Server enters a familiar screen.
At this point, he can inform the other pilots “Game is up…!” 4

Now the Clients can join the game, and take a seat in a flight.

It is advisable to stop the clock in the UI. If not, the take off time could be passed while
everybody is discussing interesting matters.

At this stage, both waypoints and munitions can still be altered. It is advisable to let the
Server do all the necessary ordnance changes. They’ll show up in the clients screen (The
Client may have to exit the loadout screen and enter again).

There is also a chat window here. The “Second chat”.

When all is satisfactory, it is standard practice for all pilots to “commit” in order of flights
and position within flights.



3
    See the TEAMSPEAK Section (following this) for Details.
4
    Meaning – “the game is up for clients to join.” This is a traditional Falcon expression.

    Multiplayer                                            143            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
After all pilots have joined, the clock should start running fast.

In the early days of Falcon, THIS was the most exciting part of MP…

If the clock isn’t running quickly, there can be two reasons

1. The first flight is within 2 minutes of taking off (no problem).
2. There is something wrong…!

The problem could be any number of things. Perhaps a lazy pilot has forgotten to join;
maybe something else….? In any case, EVERYBODY must return to the “First chat”.

Same procedure again. Usually this works.

When entering the 3D cockpit, every pilot confirms it verbally. “MeatLoaf in cockpit”. 5

Now you are ready to fly the mission.




     Have fun!!!




5
    Editor’s Note   If your name ISN’T “Meatloaf”, you shouldn’t say “Meatloaf”. Try your own name instead. - Ara

    Multiplayer                                       144          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
NATO Brevity Codes
Now that you have Team Speak up and running, and are ready to
communicate in the Virtual FreeFalcon Skies, it is important that all Virtual
Pilots are on the same Virtual page.

To this end, -=[ASG]=- has provided a list of NATO Brevity Codes for use in
your Virtual Engagements.

DEFINITION (as per US DoD):
A Brevity code is a code which provides no security but which has as its sole purpose the shortening of
messages rather than the concealment of their content.

The usage of these codes is imperative in a Battlefield environment, since it saves valuable seconds while
communicating, resulting in quicker response to any situation.

The intent of publishing these codes is to save you valuable seconds while communicating in the Virtual
Battlefield.

The following list of Brevity Codes is by no means exhaustive. The List has been modified to exclude some
terms which you as a pilot might never use in FF5.0. The list has also been modified to include some
additional codes/keywords, which are used regularly by any Pilot in the real world.



CONTENTS
List of Brevity Codes
List of NATO Code Names for Soviet Fighters and Missiles




                                                  151         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
A
ABORT(ING)(ED) - Directive/informative call to cease action/attack/event/mission.
ACTION - Directive to initiate a briefed attack sequence or maneuver.
ACTIVE - An emitter is radiating.
ADD() - Directive call to add a specific (system) or (electronic order of battle (EOB)category) to search
responsibility.
ALARM - Directive/informative call indicating the termination of emission control (EMCON) procedures.
ALPHA CHECK - Request for/confirmation of bearing and range to described point.
ANCHOR(ED) - # Orbit about a specific point/refueling track flown by tanker.
                -# Informative call to indicate a turning engagement about a specific location.
ANGELS -Altitude in "Thousands of Feet". Angels 10 equals 10,000 Feet.
ARIZONA - No anti-radiation missile (ARM) ordnance remaining.
ARMSTRONG- Weapons are Armed.
AS FRAGGED - Unit or element will be performing exactly as stated by the air tasking order(ATO).
AUTHENTICATE - To request or provide a response for a coded challenge.
AZIMUTH - Two or more groups primarily separated in bearing.



B
BANDIT - An aircraft positively identified as enemy, in accordance with theater ID criteria. The term does not
necessarily imply direction or authority to engage.
BDA - Bomb Damage Assessment. A post-strike report on the damage caused to a particular target.
BEAM (ING) - An aircraft crossing your path perpendicularly is said to be BEAMING.
BENT - System indicated is inoperative.
BINGO -            # Fuel state needed for recovery.
                   # Proceed/am proceeding to specified base (field) or carrier or positioning.
BITTERSWEET - Notification of possible BLUE ON BLUE (friendly fire) situation relative to a designated
track or friendly aircraft.
BLANK - A suppression of enemy air defenses (SEAD) aircraft does not detect any emitters of interest.
BLIND - No visual contact with friendly aircraft/ground position opposite of VISUAL.
BLOW THROUGH - Directive/informative call that indicates aircraft will continue straight ahead at the merge
and not turn with target/targets.
BLUE ON BLUE - Friendly fire, inadvertent hostile engagement between allies.
BOGEY - A radar or visual air contact whose identity is unknown.
BOGEY DOPE - Request for target information as briefed/available.
BOX - Groups/contacts/formations in a square or offset square.
BRAA - Tactical control format providing target bearing, range, altitude, and aspect, relative to a friendly
aircraft.
BRACKET - Indicates geometry where friendly aircraft will maneuver to a position on opposing sides, either
laterally or vertically from the target.
BREAK (Direction) - Directive to perform an immediate maximum performance turn in the direction indicated
assumes a defensive situation.
BREAKAWAY - Tanker or receiver directive call indicating immediate vertical and nose/tail separation
between tanker and receiver is required.
BROKE LOCK - Loss of radar/infrared (IR) lock-on (advisory).
BUDDY LOCK - Locked to a known friendly aircraft; normally a response to a SPIKE or BUDDY SPIKE call
and accompanied with position/heading/altitude.
BUDDY SPIKE - Friendly aircraft(s) air-to-air indication on radar warning receiver (RWR)to be followed by
position/heading/altitude.
BUGOUT - Separation from that particular engagement/attack/operation intent to (Direction) re-
engage/return.
BULLSEYE - An established point from which the position of an object can be referenced made by
cardinal/range or digital format.
BUSTER - Directive call to fly at maximum continuous speed i.e. to use the afterburner.
BUZZER - Electronic communications jamming.




                                                   152          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
C
CAP/CAPPING # Directive call to establish an orbit at a specified location. (Location)
                # An orbit at a specified location.
CHAMPAGNE - An attack of three distinct groups with two in front and one behind.
CHEAPSHOT - ARH Missile not supported to Active Range.
CLEAN -         # No radar contacts on aircraft of interest.
                # No visible battle damage
                # Aircraft not carrying external stores.
CLEARED - Requested action is authorized (no engaged/support roles are assumed).
CLEARED HOT - Ordnance release is authorized.
COLD -          # On a leg of the combat air patrol (CAP) pointed away from the anticipated threats.
                # Group( s) heading away from friendly aircraft.
COMMIT(TED) - Fighter intent to engage/intercept, controller continues to provide information.
CONFETTI - Chaff lane or corridor.
CONS/CONNING - THREAT/BOGEY aircraft leaving contrails.
CONTACT -       # Sensor contact at the stated position.
                # Acknowledges sighting of a specified reference point/object/aircraft. Usually followed by
                the name of point/object/aircraft.
COVER(ING) - Directive/informative call to take Surface/Air action or establish an air-to-air (A/A) posture that
will allow engagement of a specified target or threat.
CRANK - F-pole maneuver; implies illuminating target at radar gimbal limits.



D
DASH(#) - Aircraft position within a flight. Use if specific call sign is unknown.
DECLARE - Inquiry as to the identification of a specified track( s), target( s), or correlated group.
DEFENSIVE - Aircraft is in a defensive position and maneuvering with reference to the (SPIKE/Missile/stated
condition. SAM/MUD/AAA
DE-LOUSE - Directive to detect and identify unknown aircraft trailing friendly aircraft.
DEPLOY - Directive to maneuver to briefed positioning.
DIVERT - Proceed to alternate mission or base.
DEAD-RECKONING-To navigate without the assistance of instruments



E
ECHELON - Groups/contacts/formation with wingman displaced approximately 45 degrees behind leader's
3/9 (o'clock) line.
ESTIMATE - Provides estimate of the size, range, height, or other parameter of a specified contactimplies
degradation.
EXTEND - Short-term maneuver to gain energy, distance, or separationnormally with the (Direction) intent of
re-engaging.




                                                    153         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
F
FADED - Radar contact is lost.
FAST - Target speed is estimated to be 600 knots ground speed/Mach 1 or greater.
FATHER - Tactical air navigation (TACAN) station.
FEET WET / DRY - Flying over water / land.
FENCE (IN / OUT) - Set cockpit switches as appropriate prior to entering/exiting the combat area.
FOX (Number) - Simulated/actual launch of air-to-air weapons.
       ''ONE''         - Semi-active radar homing / semi-active radar-guided missile.
       ''TWO''         - Infrared-guided missile.
       ''THREE''       - active radar-guided missile.
       ''FOUR''        - simulated fire by a bombardier.
FRIENDLY - A positively identified friendly contact.
FURBALL - A turning fight involving multiple aircraft with known BANDITS and FRIENDLIES mixed.
FULL GRUNT- Full Military Power; throttle setting of 100% thrust.
FULL MILITARY POWER- 100% thrust



G
GIMBAL (Direction)- Radar target is approaching azimuth or elevation limits. Followed by Direction of the
target aircraft.
GLOWWORM - Flare dropping aircraft
GRANDSLAM - All HOSTILE aircraft of a designated track (or against which a mission was tasked) are shot
down.
GREEN (Direction) - Direction determined to be clearest of enemy air-to-air activity.
GROUP - Radar targets within approximately 3 nautical miles (NMs) of each other.



H
HARD (Direction) - High-G, energy-sustaining turn.
HEAVY - A group or package known to contain three or more entities.
HIGH - Between 25,000 and 40,000 feet mean sea level (MSL).
HIT(S) -# Air-to-air (A/A) Momentary radar returns search. (Indicates approximate altitude information from
fighter.)
          -# Air-to-ground (A/G) Weapons impact within lethal distance.
HOLDING HANDS - Aircraft in visual formation.
HOLD FIRE - An emergency fire control order used to stop firing on a designated target, to include
destruction of any missiles in flight.
HOOK (Left/Right) - Directive to perform an in-place 180-degree turn.
HOSTILE - A contact identified as enemy upon which clearance to fire is authorized in accordance with
theater rules of engagement.
HOT -# Attack geometry will result in rollout in front of the target.
-# On a leg of the CAP pointing toward the anticipated threats.
-# Group heading towards friendly aircraftopposite of COLD.
-# Ordnance employment intended or completed.
HOTDOG - Informative/directive call that an aircraft is approaching or at a specified standoff distance from
the sovereign airspace of a nation (as defined by national boundaries or territorial sea and airspace). Follow
briefed procedures.




                                                   154          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
I
ID -  # Directive to identify the target.
      -# Identification accomplished, followed by type.
INTERROGATE - Interrogate the designated contact of the IFF mode indicated.



J
JOKER - Fuel state above BINGO at which separation/bugout/event termination should begin.
JUDY - Aircrew has radar/visual contact on the correct target, has taken control of the intercept, and only
requires situation awareness information. Controller will minimize radio transmissions.
JINKING- A series of erratic maneuvers designed to throw off an enemy gun attack.



K
KILL - Clearance to fire.
KNOCK IT OFF - Directive to cease air combat maneuvers/attacks/activities.



L
LEAD-TRAIL - Tactical formation of two contacts within a group separated in range or following one another.
LEAKER(S) - Airborne threat has passed through a defensive layer. Call should include amplifying
information.
LINE ABREAST - Two contacts within a group side by side.
LIGHTS ON/OFF - Directive to turn on/off exterior lights.
LOCKED - Final radar lock-on; sort is not assumed. (BRAA/Direction)
LOCK ON- To acquire a target with radar with the intent to fire a weapon.
LOST CONTACT - Radar contact lost.
LOST LOCK - Loss of radar/IR lock-on (advisory).
LOW - Target altitude below 10,000 feet above ground level (AGL).



M
MAGNUM - Launch of friendly antiradiation missile.
MAPPING - Multifunction radar in an A/G mode.
MARKING - Friendly aircraft leaving contrails.
MARSHAL(ING) - Establish(ed) at a specific point.
MEDIUM - Target altitude between 10,000 feet AGL and 25,000 feet MSL.
MERGE(D) -# Information that friendlies and targets have arrived in the same visual arena.
       -# Call indicating radar returns have come together.
MIDNIGHT - Informative call advising that C3 functions are no longer available; opposite of SUNRISE.
MSA- Minimum Safe Altitude. Altitude below which you are asking for trouble.
MUD - Indicates RWR ground threat displayed followed by clock position and type. (Type/Direction)
MUSIC - Electronic radar jamming. (On air interdiction (AI) radar, electronic deceptive jamming.)




                                                   155          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
N
NAILS - Radar warning receiver (RWR) indication of a radar in search. Add clock position/azimuth, if known.
NAKED - No radar warning receiver (RWR) indications.
NEW PICTURE - Used by controller or aircrew when tactical picture has changed. Supersedes all previous
calls and re-establishes picture for all players.
NO FACTOR - Not a threat.
NO JOY - Aircrew does not have visual contact with the TARGET/BANDIT/landmark; opposite of TALLY.
NOTCH - All aspect missile defensive maneuver to place threat radar/missile on the beam. (Direction)



O
OFF (Direction) - Informative call indicating attack is terminated and maneuvering to the indicated direction.
ON STATION - Informative call unit/aircraft has reached assigned station.
OPENING - Increasing in range.
OUT (Direction) - Informative call indicating a turn to a cold aspect relative to the threat; opposite of IN.
OUTLAW - Informative call that a bogey has meet point of origin criteria.



P
PACKAGE - Geographically isolated collection of groups/contacts/formations.
PADLOCKED - Informative call indicating aircrew cannot take eyes off an aircraft or a surface position
without risk of losing TALLY/VISUAL.
PAINT(S) - Interrogated group/radar contact that is responding with any of the specified IFF modes and
correct codes established for the ID criteria.
PARROT - IFF transponder.
PICTURE - Provide tactical situation status pertinent to mission.
PINCE/PINCER - Threat maneuvering for a bracket attack.
PITBULL -         # Informative call AIM-120 is at active range.
                  -# AIM-54 at active range.
PLAYMATE - Cooperating aircraft.
PLAYTIME - Amount of time aircraft can remain on station.
POP - Starting climb for air-to-surface attack.
POPEYE - Flying in clouds or area of reduced visibility.
POPUP - Informative call of a contact that has suddenly appeared inside of briefed range.
POST HOLE - Rapid descending spiral.
PRESS - Directive to continue the attack; mutual support will be maintained. Supportive role will be assumed.
PURE - Informative call indicating pure pursuit is being used or directive to go pure pursuit.
PUSH (Channel) - Go to designated frequency. No acknowledgment required.
PUSHING - Departing designated point.



R
RANGE - Two or more groups separated primarily in distance along the same bearing.
RAYGUN - Indicates a radar lock-on to unknown aircraft; a request for a BUDDY SPIKE
(Position/Heading/Altitude) reply from friendly aircraft meeting these parameters (to prevent
fratricide/[[friendly fire]]).
RETROGRADE - Directive to withdraw from present position or area of operation in response to a threat.
RIFLE - Air-to-ground missile (AGM)-65 Maverick launch.
RIPPLE - Two or more munitions released or fired in close succession.




                                                   156          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
S
SADDLED - Informative call from wingman/element indicating the return to briefed formation position.
SAM (Direction) - Visual acquisition of a SAM (surface-air missile) or SAM launch; should include position.
SANDWICHED - A situation where an aircraft/element is positioned between opposing aircraft/elements.
SCRAM - Emergency directive to egress for defensive or survival reasons. (Direction)
SCRAMBLE - Takeoff as quickly as possible.
SCUD - Any threat tactical/theater ballistic missile (TBM).
SEPARATE - Leave a specific engagement; may or may not reenter.
SHOOTER - Aircraft/unit designated to employ ordnance.
SHOTGUN - Pre-briefed weapons state at which SEPARATION/BUGOUT should begin.
SKATE - Informative call/directive to execute launch and leave tactics.
SKIP IT - Veto of fighter COMMIT, usually followed with further directions.
SKOSH - Aircraft is out of or unable to employ active radar missiles.
SKUNK - A radar or visual [[maritime]] surface contact whose identity is unknown.
SLOW - Target with a ground speed of 300 knots or less.
SNAP (Direction) - An immediate vector to the group described.
SNIPER - Directive for an aircraft to employ a range-known HARM against a specified threat at the specified
location.
SORT - Directive to assign responsibility within a group; criteria can be met visually, electronically (radar), or
both.
SORTED - Sort responsibility has been met.
SPIKE - RWR indication of an AI threat in track, launch, or unknown mode; include bearing, clock position,
and threat type, if known.
SPLASH -         # (A/A) Target destroyed.
         -# (A/G) Weapons impact.
STACK - Two or more groups/contacts/formations with a high/low altitude separation in relation to each other.
STATUS - Request for tactical situation.
STROBE - Radar indications of noise jamming.
SUNRISE - Informative call that C3 functions are available. (opposite of MIDNIGHT).



T
TALLY - Sighting of a TARGET, BANDIT, BOGEY, or enemy position.
TALLY-HO - Confirmed target sighted. Opposite of “no joy“.
THROTTLES - Reduction in power to decrease IR signature.
TIGER - Enough fuel and ordnance to accept a COMMIT.
TRACKING - # Stabilized gun solution.
                  -# Continuous illumination of a target.
                  -# Contact heading.
TRAILER - The last aircraft within a group(s).
TRASHED - Informative call that missile has been defeated.
TRESPASS - The addressed flight is entering a Surface/Air threat ring of a specific system at the stated
(Position) location.
TUMBLEWEED - Indicates limited situational awareness; NO JOY, BLIND; a request for information.



V
VAMPIRE - Hostile antiship missile (ASM).
VERY HIGH - Above 40,000 feet MSL.
VIC - Three groups, contacts, or formations with the single closest in range and two contacts, azimuth split,
in trail.
VISUAL - Sighting of a friendly aircraft/ground position; opposite of BLIND.




                                                    157          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
W
WALL - Three or more groups or contacts primarily split in azimuth.
WARNING (colour) - Hostile attack is
                -'''RED''' imminent or in progress.
                -'''YELLOW''' probable.
                -'''WHITE''' improbable (all clear).
WEAPONS () - Fire only
                -'''FREE''' at targets not identified as friendly in accordance with current rules of engagement
       (ROE).
                -'''TIGHT''' at targets positively identified as hostile in accordance with current ROE.
                -''HOLD''' (USA, USMC) in self-defense or in response to a formal order.
                -''SAFE''' (USN) NOTE: USN and NATO use WEAPONS SAFE to avoid confusion with the
       phrase HOLD FIRE.
WEEDS - Indicates that fixed-wing aircraft are operating below 2,000 feet above ground level.
WHAT LUCK - Request for results of missions or tasks.
WHAT STATE - Report amount of fuel and missiles remaining. Ammunition and oxygen are reported only
when specifically requested or critical.
                - ( ) Active = number of active radar missiles remaining.
                - ( ) Radar = number of semi-active radar missiles remaining.
                - ( ) Heat = number of IR missiles remaining.
                - ( ) Fuel = pounds of fuel or time remaining.
WINCHESTER - No ordnance remaining.




Y
YARDSTICK - Directive to use A/A TACAN for ranging.




                                                    158         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
   NATO Code Names for Soviet Fighters and Missiles

Fighter/Attack Aircraft
Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-15                                               Fagot
Nanchang Q-5|Nanchang Q-5/A-5                                         Fantan
Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-9                                                Fargo
Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-19 and Shenyang J-6                              Farmer
Sukhoi Su-24                                                          Fencer
Tupolev Tu-28|Tupolev Tu-28P/Tu-128                                   Fiddler
Shenyang J-8                                                          Finback
Sukhoi Su-47                                                          Firkin
Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-21 and Chengdu J-7                               Fishbed
Sukhoi Su-9 and Sukhoi Su-11|Su-11                                    Fishpot
Sukhoi Su-7 and Sukhoi Su-17|Su-17/Su-20/Su-22                        Fitter
Sukhoi Su-15                                                          Flagon
Sukhoi Su-27|Sukhoi Su-27/Su-30/Su-33/Su-35/Su-37                     Flanker
Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-23 and Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-27                   Flogger
Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-25                                               Foxbat
Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-31                                               Foxhound
Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-17 and Shenyang J-5                              Fresco
Sukhoi Su-25                                                          Frogfoot
Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-29/Mikoyan MiG-33|MiG-33/Mikoyan MiG-35|MiG-35   Fulcrum
Sukhoi Su-34|Sukhoi Su-32/Su-34                                       Fullback


Bomber Aircraft
Tupolev Tu-2                                                          Bat
Tupolev Tu-4                                                          Bull
Tupolev Tu-14                                                         Bosun
Tupolev Tu-16                                                         Badger
Tupolev Tu-22                                                         Blinder
Tupolev Tu-22M                                                        Backfire
Tupolev Tu-82                                                         Beagle
Tupolev Tu-85                                                         Barge
Tupolev Tu-91                                                         Boot
Tupolev Tu-95                                                         Bear A/B/C/D
Tupolev Tu-98                                                         Backfin
Tupolev Tu-160                                                        Blackjack
A-50 Shmel                                                            Mainstay


Missiles
Kaliningrad R-5                                                       AA-1 Alkali
Vympel R-13                                                           AA-2 Atoll
Kaliningrad R-8                                                       AA-3 Anab
Raduga R-9                                                            AA-4 Awl
Bisnovat R-4                                                          AA-5 Ash
Bisnovat R-40                                                         AA-6 Acrid
Vympel R-23                                                           AA-7 Apex
Molniya R-60                                                          AA-8 Aphid
Vympel R-33                                                           AA-9 Amos
Vympel R-27                                                           AA-10 Alamo
Vympel R-73                                                           AA-11 Archer
Vympel R-77                                                           AA-12 Adder
Vympel R-37                                                           AA-X-13 Arrow




                                            159       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Recommended:

RP5 Manual           Download here       http://www.mediafire.com/?mtyj0w05gzj



Falcon4.0™ Checklists (Produced for the community by Olivier “Red Dog” Beaumont)
Art Of The Kill             (Spectrum Holobyte. Pete “Boomer” Bonanni)




Supplemental:
Hughes/Raytheon AIM-120 AMRAAM Operations Guide
(Written for eFalcon v1.10 by Stephen “HotDogOne” French)

       Download here       http://www.mediafire.com/?t4m23ywhyv3


LANTIRN AN/AAQ-13 Navigation Pod AN/AAQ -14 Targeting Pod Operations
Guide (F-16C/D Block 50/52)
(Written for the Superpak 3 Series of Falcon 4.0 by Wayne “Black Cat” Timmins)

       Download here       http://www.mediafire.com/?mu4jnitmwy0


AN/APG – 68 (V5) Operations Guide
(written for eFalcon 109 by Stephen “HotDogOne” French)

       Download here       http://www.mediafire.com/?jywcidyh2zm




"Fighter Combat: Tactics and Maneuvering" by Shaw




                                           166        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
             AVIONICS :   IFF + RWR

             GPS:   Step + Deployment + Bubble

             Harms + aff + gRAYSCALE
             TWS
             Rockets
             Star Navigation.
             Landing
             CCIP + Precision WP
             RECON + the SR−71
             A.I. Management


Learning Centre           167     F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
AVIONICS + GPS Ordnance
The AVIONICS SECTION combines information from the FF4.0
Manual, with newer information from FF5.0

Both IFF Operations, & the use of GPS Ordnance were covered in
the FF4.0 Manual.

However – there have been some significant upgrades to the GPS
deployment procedures, and some additional avionics upgrades.

The tutorials are presented here in FULL.

It is advisable to read them in FULL.

These Features are only available in FreeFalcon, and thus a full
working-knowledge is required for both the success of your
missions, and for the full potential of this simulation to be enjoyed.




                                        Ara’


Learning Centre                  168     F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
IFF in FreeFalcon
IFF in FreeFalcon is powered On by default.
To turn power Off/On you can use Ctrl-I to cycle On and Off.

You can also use the switch located on the left side of your cockpit to turn IFF MAIN POWER on
and off. (Note: Some ‘Pits do not feature this animated switch).

With IFF on and FCR selected on the L-MFD, you can scan Radar targets for friendly Vs.
unknown by selecting Ctrl-Left_ARROW on your keyboard. You will see a green 4-second
countdown on the FCR screen as the IFF scans the radar contacts (see Figure 1).

When finished, all targets it interrogates as friendly will be shown as small green circles and
contacts it interrogates as unknown will remain as yellow squares (See Figure 2).

While green circles are friendly aircraft and yellow squares are generally enemy aircraft, pilots
need to use AWACS to verify the IFF interrogation authenticity since some of the contacts may
have missed the IFF scan.




It is necessary to refresh this from time to time as radar conditions change.

To reflect realism, Scan Mode IFF is not fool-proof, and if your FCR drops radar track of
any contact, then you will have to re-send the IFF signal for re-interrogation.

Also, if a new target appears after you perform IFF, you’ll have to re-interrogate.

On your FCR screen there is a CPL and DCPL mode which you access by pressing CNTL (OSB 5)
and then OSB 10. CPL interrogates what's showing on the FCR screen.

DCPL interrogates the whole 60x60 area in front of the plane and gives the pilot a snapshot of
what is in the distant field of view (See Figure 3, below).

DCPL returns stay active for 5 seconds before being wiped.



Learning Centre                             169         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
On the HSD (normally right MFD in Nav Mode), the AIFF is active as well and will display
friendly interrogated returns based on the CPL and DCPL in the FCR (See Figure 4).

If you do not want the AIFF to display, on the HSD, press CNTL (OSB 5) and then OSB 3.
This turns AIFF On/Off.




To return either or both MFDs then back to normal hit the CNTL (OSB 5) on each again.




NOTE      IF the A/C does NOT possess an IFF System, IFF
operations will NOT be available in that particular aircraft…




Learning Centre                            170        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
RWR                      Symbology




With FF5, the Virtual Pilot will need to recognize some new RWR Symbology.
This Section will teach you all that you need to know.

In the following tables, you will find both the vehicle name, and the symbol
with which it is represented on the RWR display.




Learning Centre                     171      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
2S6, K-30, M163                                                    A
A-4                               - All Variants                   B
A-5, Q5D                                                      Chevron
A-50                                                               S
A-6E, KA-6D                                                         6
A-7D/E                                                              7
AA-12, MICA EM, PL-12                                              M
AA-9                                                               M
AH64, AH66, KA3B,                                                  H
AIM-120 C-5                                                        M
AIM-120 C-7                                                        M
AIM-120B Rb-99                                                     M
AIM-54A & C                                                        M
AJS-37                                                             37
AMX                                                                X
AV8A+B, Harrier GR9,Sea Harrier                                     8
B-1                                                                B
B-2A                                                               B
B-52's                                                             B
Barlock B                                                           5
Bill board, High Screen, SA-12                                     S
Buccaneer                                                     Chevron
CF18, F18C, D, E, F                                                18
Crotal NG, Crotal Radar                                            C
E2C P3, S3B,                                                       S
E3                                                                 S
E-8, RC=135                                                        S
EA-6B                                                               6
EF-111. 111F                                                      111
EuroFighter, Typhoon F2                                            E
EW Radar,                                                          S
F/A-18 A, E & F                                                    18
F-100D                                                            100
F-102A*                                                           102
F-104J, RA-5C                                                     104
F-105D, 105G                                                      105
F-14                              - All Variants                   14
F-15                              - All Variants                   15
F-16                              - All Variants                   16
F-22                                                               22
F-35                                                               35
F-4 Phantom                       - All Variants                    4




Learning Centre                              172   F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
F-5A, 5E, RF5E                                                       5
F-8E                                                                 8
Fan SongB SA-2                                                       2
Fire Can 20mm Phalanx                                               A
Fire Control                                                         S
Flap Lid, Tomb Stone                                                10
Flat Face SA-3                                                       S
H6a                                                                  6
HQ-17, SA-15                                                        15
HQ-7                                                                 9
J-10                                                                10
J-11, SU-27, 27UB                                                   27
J-35 Draken                                                         35
J-5, MiG17PF                                                        17
J-7B, 21F13, 21MF, 21PF                                             21
J-7E, J-7PG, Mig-21/93, Mig-21bis                                   21
J-8B                                                                 8
JA-37                                                               37
Jaguar GR3                                                           J
JAS-39A                                                             39
JSDF F-1                                                             1
JSDF F-2                                                            16
KFIR                                                                K
Long Tack SA-6, SA-8                                                 L
Low Blow SA-3                                                        3
M1992, S-60, 95SPAAG ZSU-23/23-4                                    A
MiG - 23BN, 23ML                                                    23
MiG-19, J-6                                                         19
MiG25                                                               25
MiG-27                                                              27
MiG29                               - All Variants                  29
Mig31                                                               31
Mirage                              - All Variants                  M
MPQ-46/48                                                           H
MSQ-104, Patriot ADS                                                 P
Naval                                                             BOAT
Naval Ships                                                       BOAT
Nike                                                                N
Pat Hand SA-6, SA-4, SA-8                                            P
Rafale                              - All Variants                  R
Roland Man, Marder, Gepard                                          R
SA 13                                                               13




Learning Centre                               173    F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
SA-17, Snowdrift, Spoon Rest                                   17
SA-8                                                            8
SA-9                                                            9
Square Pair SA-5                                                5
SR71                                                           71
Straight Flush                                                  6
Straight Flush SA-6                                             6
SU-15                                                          15
SU-17M4                                                        17
SU-24M                                                         24
SU-25                                                          25
SU-30M, MKK, MKK2                                              30
SU-33                                                          33
SU-35                                                          35
SU-39                                                          39
SU-7                                                            7
SU-9                                                            9
Super Etendard                                                 S
Thin Skin                                                      S
Tornado                        - All Variants                  T
TU-160                                                         B
TU-22M3                                                        B
TU-95, 95MS                                                    B




Learning Centre                           174   F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
GPS Munitions “STEP”
FF5.0 sees the addition of a small, but significant improvement to the
deployment of GPS ordnance.
You will notice that the SMS MFD of GPS Guided Weapons has an additional button (OSB #20).

A label will appear showing “AUTO STEP” or “MANUAL STEP”.

Whilst in GPS Weapons PB Mode, and whilst releasing MORE than one (1) bomb simultaneously
(one pickle = multiple bombs), this new button (OSB #20) will determine if EACH bomb will guide
to it’s OWN, individual target (as has been the default and unchangeable case until now), or if ALL
rippled bombs will guide to a SINGLE target.

“AUTO STEP”              Each bomb will guide to an individual target.
“MANUAL STEP”            All bombs will guide to a single target.

“MANUAL STEP” is very helpful for important targets (such as runways and large structures),
which often require MORE than one bomb.




Learning Centre                              175        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
GPS                            Deployment
FreeFalcon5 features some changes to the use of GPS type weapons compared to the
previous version (FF4).

DISCLAIMER: While these changes are exciting and add functionality to Falcon 4.0™, please be aware
that they are a Work In Progress. We would ask your understanding of this, and your acceptance of the
current limitations of development in this area. Naturally, if you feel the implementation of these weapons is
not “realistic” enough for your tastes, you may simply elect not to use them at this time.

The following tutorial is designed to show you how to properly target and deploy JDAMs
and JSOWs in FreeFalcon5. Both JDAMs and JSOWs are GPS guided munitions and is
designed to be used only to target stationary targets. These weapons are Not designed
to be used for attacking moving targets.


Both weapons operate in two (2) basic modes:




 PB (Pre-briefed targets): PB targets
 are those targets that have their GPS
 coordinates pre-loaded into the FCC
 and are then transmitted to the bomb
 by selecting the relative target from
 the scrolling target list in the MFD.




                                            TOO (Targets of opportunity): TOO is used when
                                            targeting something that is not a PB target and
                                            requires the use of the GM radar in CCRP mode ore a
                                            “Targeting pod” (TGP) in order to successfully reset
                                            the GPS coordinates on the weapons for a new
                                            target.



                                            While the delivery methods of each weapon differ in some
                                            aspects, the targeting functions are the same. As long as
                                            they remember some of the basic rules of GPS
                                            deployment, Virtual Pilots will be able to enjoy this upgrade
                                            to Falcon 4.0™ and integrate these weapons into their
                                            mission loadouts.




Learning Centre                                   176          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
JDAMs (GBU-31/32/34/35/38):
JDAMs are regular Mk series dumb bombs with GPS/INS guidance kits attached. They do not have any type
of propulsion systems and are therefore – due to being free fall weapons - limited in range.
Just like regular dumb bombs, JDAMs dropped at lower altitudes will have lower ranges that those dropped
at higher altitudes. The maximum range of any JDAM when dropped in level flight at cruise altitude
should be around 5 to 8 NM from the target. Under some conditions and altitudes, ranges can be extended,
especially if the bomb is lofted during release.




Note: Ground units such as air defense units
will not allow you to “target step” if you have
chosen to use JDAMs for strikes against ground
units.

CCRP: CCRP gives the pilot the
necessary bombing range and delivery
cues required to tell if the target is within
range of the JDAM. Since JDAMs are
free fall bombs, they will have similar
ranges as LGBs or regular dumb
bombs. You will still have to fly the
standard CCRP delivery profile in order
to get the JDAMs to release.




JSOW (AGM-154-A/C):
JSOWs currently come in two different types: CBU dispensers and Penetration type bombs. The
AGM-154 JSOW is a gliding bomb munitions dispenser, designed to allow the launching aircraft to
strike from long distances against PB targets or TOO in high threat areas.

•   The AGM-154A is a CBU type gliding bomb cluster munitions dispenser, designed to primarily
    provide an economical way to strike air defenses beyond their threat ranges. The F-16CJ was
    the first operational and primary user of this weapon, although several other types of aircraft
    are able to carry it as well. JSOW-As are not recommended for use against hard targets and
    will likely produce only minimal damage to non-vehicle targets.

•   The AGM-154C is a penetration type version designed to allow the launching aircraft to strike
    from long distances against PB targets or TOO in high threat areas. The USN F/A-18 fleet is
    the primary user of this variant.

•   The AFDS, which is used by several European aircraft and the Bombkapsel m/90 (Mjolner)
    used by SAAB aircraft, are similar to the JSOW-A. They are gliding bomblet dispensers with
    GPS guidance for use against soft targets like vehicles and air defense sites. They also are
    likely to have a shorter range than JSOWs.




Learning Centre                                   177      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Developer Notes on JSOWs:
The operation and deployment of JSOWs depicted in this patch is considered a “Work In Progress”. They
are in no way considered “complete”. While the ordnance functions in a similar way to the real weapons,
realistic HUD and MFD symbology is not implemented. This is due to the lack availability of real-world
information at the time of development. Additionally - in order to get the bombs to glide realistic distances -
the flight profiles of JSOWs are not considered realistic. Should they chose to view the bomb during it’s
flight path (we recommend staying in the pit), pilots will likely notice some odd behavior.. Much of this will
depend on altitude, release angle, speed of aircraft and range to target. In most cases, the JSOW will tend fly
up to the target at high altitude, then make a slow turn down for its final descent.

For best results, it is recommended that pilots release JSOWs in level flight while at 25k’ AGL for targets
30NM away or less. For targets from 30 NM to 50 NM in distance, a nose pitch of 10-15 degrees in the
HUD is recommended upon release. This will provide some lofting of the weapon and should help it reach
the target.




                                                                   Please note that higher pitch angles will
                                                                   likely give unrealistic flight profiles for the
                                                                   JSOW. Tipping the nose down or up may
                                                                   cause the bomb to fall short or loft into an
                                                                   unwanted flight profile since the AoA of
                                                                   the aircraft basically is used to aim the
                                                                   JSOW during its flight.




As always, should the virtual pilot find the realism attributes of the JSOW to be less than satisfying, they may
simply elect to not use the weapon, and substitute it with alternate ordnance..




Learning Centre                                    178          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Quick Start / Basic Rules:
A new feature in FF5 is that the “Laser/Targeting Pod” is present using GPS guided bombs.
There are two ways of using it:

      Use it to monitor and visually confirm mission success (great feature).
      Use it to confirm and designate targets in TOO mode.


The Only release-mode available for JDAM/JSOW bombs is CCRP. It is automatically
activated when the bomb/s is powered up.
All modes and “tactics” described in this guide are valid for both JDAM and JSOW
bombs.

AUTO STEP – PB mode:
In this “automated” mode, all you have to do is select your primary target on the
JDAM/JSOW SMS page on the right MFD. The targeting systems then assign targets in an
ascending order, matching the number of bombs your AC carries.

This means that only one bomb is assigned to each target, regardless of if pickled in
pair or in single/pair ripple.

Choose your primary target.
Power up the bombs, and the CCRP will show you when to pickle.

MAN(manual) STEP – PB mode:
In this mode all bombs pickled will seek the target you have chosen on the JDAM/JSOW
SMS page on the right MFD. This mode is a very useful targeting “hard” targets that need
more than one bomb to be destroyed.

This is a “Single target” mode meaning that it is not possible to assign several targets
in one pass.

Choose your target.
Power up the bomb/s, and the CCRP will show you when to pickle.

Note1. AUTO STEP – PB + MAN STEP – PB mode:
The “laser pod” TGP page is used Only to watch bombs impact.
Never assign anything with TGP in these two modes.

Note 2. AUTO STEP – PB mode:
The TGP and/or AG radar will “Auto-lock” a target at target waypoint when the bombs are
powered up. This will not affect your chosen target priority or hit success in any way.

TOO mode: (MAN STEP)
In this mode, one is free to assign any desired target, as long as it’s a stationary target.
Use the AG (GM) radar in DBS-1/2 mode ore the “Laser Pod” TGP page to assign targets.
Also - in this mode - all bombs pickled will hit the assigned target, but this is also a
“Multiple targets” mode, meaning that it is possible to assign and pickle at several targets
in one pass, using TGP or GM radar as SOI.




Learning Centre                           179        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                                             This image shows the JDAM/JSOW SMS
                                              Page in AUTO-STEP PB mode.




In the image above, the OSB functions and Status Information are as follows:

      1.   Auto/Manual Step-selector + Status
      2.   Master-Arm Status (On)
      3.   PB/TOO Selector + Status
      4.   GPS Bomb “Power” switch + Status (On)
      5.   PB Primary Target-site Name (TGT)
      6.   Designated Objective GPS Target (OBJ)
      7.   RNG to Target in NM
      8.   TGT Selector Switch-Up
      9.   TGT Selector Switch-Down

These following three images show JDAM/JSOW MFDs using TOO mode:

AG Radar in GM DBS-2 mode        TGP Page, Not SOI         GPS SMS page in TOO mode




      AG: Air to Ground                      GM: Ground Map

      SMS: Stores Management System          SOI: Sensor Of Interest (active sensor)




Learning Centre                       180        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
JDAM/JSOWs in TOO (Target of Opportunity) mode Delivery :

There are two ways to designate targets in this mode

Using the Laser/Sniper pod (TGP)

                   &

Using AG radar (GM) in DBS-2 mode



Using the Laser/Sniper pod (TGP).

The method is very similar to that used for LGBs, but with one major difference: The laser
function is not used. This means that you are not able to change the target for “flying”
bombs, by moving the TGP cross after the bombs are released. In other words, the flying
bombs will hit the point on the ground at which the TGP cross was pointing, at the instant
the bombs were released.

However, as stated earlier, after one has have released the first bomb/s at the primary
target, one may move the TGP/Radar cross to the next target, and release again (if one
has remaining ordnance). The time available to choose targets spans from approximately
3 to 8 sec in one pass (JDAMS) (depending on speed, altitude and release angels). Also,
one need not be aligned 100%, when releasing, as the JDAM bomb/s steer themselves to
target when launched within reasonable parameters.

PROCEDURE:

Passing IP waypoint:

* Activate target waypoint.
* Activate AG mode (ICP).
* On right MFD SMS page - choose TOO mode
* Configure single/pairs etc.
* Power up the bomb/s.
* Master Arm – “On”.
* Switch to TGP page on right MFD and activate (AG mode).
* Zoom TGP as desired.
* The TGP cross is now over target area.
* Lock up a building and unlock again.
* The TGP is now in “Area” mode, and SOI.
* Sleeve the TGP cross over desired target and line up for drop.
* Locking up the target or just using “Area” mode is optional.




Learning Centre                          181        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Using AG radar (GM) in DBS-2 mode.

If the weather conditions make the use of Laser/Sniper pod impossible, AG radar (GM) in
DBS-2 mode may be used in TOO mode. This method requires a little more planning on
the RAMP. The target area must be properly reconnoitred and memorised. Aspects such
as “size”, “shape” and “placement” of buildings, are important. This is because the DBS-2
radar mode only shows shape, size and placement of buildings in relation to each other.



PROCEDURE:

Passing IP waypoint:

* Activate TGT waypoint.
* Activate AG mode (ICP).
* On right MFDs SMS page - TOO mode
* Configure single/pairs etc.
* Power up the bomb/s.
* Master Arm – “On”
* Press the “NORM” button on left MFD (AG radar) 3 times to enter DBS-2 mode.
* The radar cross is now over target area
* The radar cross is now SOI.
* Sleeve the DBS-2 radar cross over desired target and line up for drop.
*It is best to NOT lock up the target using this method.




Learning Centre                          182       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Sensors to watch:
Note: This HUD image below only applies to JDAM usage.




 When the caret inside the red circle reaches
 the point of the red arrow, press & hold the
 Pickle button.




  Pickle when release caret reaches “Good Range”.




Learning Centre                      183       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
JDAM/JSOWs in PB (Pre Briefed) mode Delivery:
AUTO-STEP mode:

A straight forward and relatively easy mode for deploying JDAM+JSOW(C) bombs.
As described in the quick guide, this mode is used to attack multiple PB targets with
multiple bombs in one pass.

PROCEDURE:
Passing IP waypoint:

*   Activate TGT waypoint.
*   Activate AG mode (ICP).
*   On right MFDs SMS page, check if “Auto-Step” mode (default) is activated
*   Configure single/pair etc.
*   Now choose your primary target, list up or down by using OSB 16 or OSB 17.
*   Power up the bomb/s
*   Switch Masterarm On.

* Now you have two options:

1 - Use the TGP to watch the impact       Switch to TGP page on right MFD. Zoom TGP as
desired. Don’t touch anything on any MFD after this until bombs are off. The safest way to
use TGP in this mode is to activate it after the bombs are off.
2 - Leave the SMS Page active on the Right MFD

Either way, the bombs will hit the target.


MANUAL-STEP mode:

As explain in the quick guide, this mode is used if you want to bomb one single target in
one pass. All bombs released, will hit the chosen target.

PROCEDURE:
Passing IP waypoint:

* Switch to TGT waypoint.
* Activate AG mode (ICP).
* On right MFDs SMS page, Choose “Manual-Step” mode
* Configure single/pair etc.
* Choose your target, list up or down by using OSB 16 or OSB 17.
* Power up the bomb/s
* Switch Masterarm On.
* Now you have the same option as in “AUTO-PB” mode to use TGP to watch and
(hopefully) confirm mission success.




Learning Centre                              184     F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Sensors to watch:
Note: This HUD image below only applies to JDAM usage.




  Pickle when release caret reaches “good range”.




Learning Centre                      185       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Some Final Notes:
You need to understand the difference between “units” and “objectives”. The target list is
derived from the objectives, and is comprised of features. Units do not have a target list since
they do not have any features. They only have vehicles. So if you target a unit using PB, you
will not have a target list and if you target an objective using TOO  No list.

The only time you get a target list is when you have placed a "strike" or "bomb" waypoint over
an objective and select the objective, which is how you get PB. Or you fly a strike mission in
a Cam or TE. Then the individual features in that objective are placed on the target list.




                                                             If this cue appears, switch up/down
                                                             and back again using TGT-Step
                                                             OSBs to make it disappear. It’s a
                                                             temporarily “lost” feature.




Learning Centre                             186        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
" Pre target" GPS Guided JDAM Level Bomb Run
          A short tutorial, with The Norwegian 1


          1st . Make a simple TE with no distractions.

          2nd . Include an F-16 C+ and a target.

(For this tutorial, I’ve chosen the “Wonsan Machine Tools - Factory Complex” as my target.)

          3rd . Arm yourself with 2 x GBU-31 GP.


AG mode engaged, and Master Arm - On.
Level at 24,800 feet, and pushing throttle to 100%(military) thrust to gain speed.




The use of AG (GM) radar (DBS2) and/or TGP is the Pilot’s personal choice in this “GPS”
guided bomb run. But DON’T lock anything up, with the AG (GM) radar, or the TGP…!
That will set the release mode to “TOO”, and BOTH bombs will hit the bugged target and
NOT the pre-planned ones…!


1
    Written to allow Ara’ and Molni to be able to hit something with JDAMS ;) - The Norwegian


Learning Centre                                      187          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
I’ll explain the use of AG radar-TGP in TOO mode in a later tutorial.

Engage the Target Waypoint.




I’ve chosen "factory 21" with the "target step up” (up caret) OSB as my first target on the
AG SMS page. I’ve also selected to drop in pairs. This means that bomb-1 will hit "factory
21" and the second will automatically target the next building on the "target step" up list.




                                                   Power up the bombs.




The bombs are now powered up and
navigation data for each bombs target
is stored in the bombs.

The CCRP targeting HUD symbols
are now showing on the HUD.




Learning Centre                           188        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
I’m still 21 miles out and choose to activate the TGP system simply to watch the impact
and confirm the hits…




                    Again – DO NOT lock up anything with the TGP…!




9 miles to target



The release caret is closing
on the bottom of the “Launch”
zone symbol in the HUD.

Press and hold the pickle
button until bombs Release

(6 to 8 miles out depending
on speed).




Learning Centre                          189        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
If you’ve followed my instructions carefully…




...you’ll see this on your TGP screen…




              Ståle
Learning Centre                          190    F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
 JSOW TacRef
 The Joint Standoff Weapon or JSOW is a highly lethal, low cost glide weapon developed
 by Raytheon (formerly Texas Instruments) for the USAF and the US Navy. Its intended
 use is against a variety of land and sea targets with launch well outside point defense
 range, due to the weapon’s standoff capability. The JSOW is a “launch and leave”
 day/night capable weapon, and is also able to be deployed in adverse weather.

 The JSOW is capable of flying a preplanned route to the target using terrain masking. If
 the preplanned launch point can't be reached, the pilot may still release the weapon (if the
 target is within launch parameters) and let the JSOW determine its own flight plan.

 The first use of the JSOW in combat occurred in 1999 against Iraqi air-defense sites. This
 was enacted by the USS Carl Winson's air wing. The results exceeded expectations and
 helped to accelerate efforts to get the JSOW into full production.




PLATFORMS


B-2A
F-15E
F/A-18C
F/A-18D
JSDF F-2



                                The Joint Standoff Weapon or JSOW is a highly lethal, low cost glide weapon developed by
                                Raytheon (formerly Texas Instruments) for the USAF and the US Navy. Its intended use is
                                against a variety of land and sea targets with launch well outside point defense range, due to the
                                weapon’s standoff capability. The JSOW is a “launch and leave” day/night capable weapon, and
                                is also able to be deployed in adverse weather.

                                The JSOW is capable of flying a preplanned route to the target using terrain masking. If the
                                preplanned launch point can't be reached, the pilot may still release the weapon (if the target is
                                within launch parameters) and let the JSOW determine its own flight plan.




 Learning Centre                                191              F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
A note on             Bubbles
The “Bubble Distance” (which determines when an Object is rendered/exists within the 3D
World) needs to be considered when using Long-Range weapons.

Obviously, if an object is not being rendered within the 3D World, then - it does not actually
exist within the 3D World. Thus - something which does not exist cannot be “destroyed”.
The “Bubble” is centered around your aircraft. Thus - keeping something within proximity
to your A/C, effectively forces it to be rendered (or exist). It is important to not turn away
from a target after GPS-Ordnance release, and fly to a distance at which the target is
“outside of the Bubble”. It will cease to exist, and your weapon will hit nothing.

This is probably a good thing, otherwise we would simply climb to 30k’, release the
weapon from 50 miles out, turn around and go home. Not exactly the level of “excitement”
or “fun” which we attempt to generate through our simming.

After releasing Long-Range ordnance, make sure you do not get further away than the
following distance, BEFORE your target is destroyed:



       GROUND TARGETS                     45nm (40nm for safety)


By following this guideline, you should avoid any nasty surprises during debrief.




Learning Centre                           192         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
HARM TARGETING                                                  With Yoni


HARM (or ARM) targeting has been improved in FreeFalcon 5.0.
This article will explain – in detail – these new procedures.



ARM missile SMS page
The SMS page for ARMs now looks similar to that of other AGMs (like the Maverick).

A “Power” mode has been added, so ARM missiles must be Powered On before firing.

Pressing OSB #8 for BIT (Built In Test) will cause the “BIT” text to flash, simulating a BIT test.
Be advised that – at this stage – this feature is N.I. (not implemented).

NOTE       ENSURE that missiles are “powered on”, before trying to fire!




Learning Centre                                193         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
ARM delivery modes
There are basically three (3) different modes to fire ARMs (Anti Radiation Missiles).

The 3 modes are:

   1. HAS – HARM As Sensor mode
   2. POS – Position Known mode (Basically a pre-briefed mode)
   3. HTS – Accessed now via the HAD (HARM Attack Display) mode page.


Note           The 3 modes are based on the AGM-88 HARM, as it is the main F-16 ARM weapon.
               Some modes will be available only when some conditions are fulfilled.
               There are many ARM capable AC in FF5, and many types of ARMs.
               So some missiles and AC combos have varying ability, regarding firing modes etc.

Note           Availability of the different modes is dependent on AC/Missile capabilities! Only
               HTS pod carrying AC may use the HTS mode. Only advanced ARM missiles have
               the ability to use the POS (which is a pre-briefed mode) mode.

Note           HAS and POS modes are both on the WPN MFD page. Also, as the sensor is the
               missile itself (along with the system in the pylon), both depend on ARM weapon
               availability. HTS HAD mode is on the HAD MFD page. HTS mode is independent
               of weapon availability, as it’s using a HTS pod as a sensor.



WPN MFD Page - Mode Choice Menu
When ARM weapon is selected, upon entering the WPN page on the MFD, one will see the
Mode Choice Menu, displayed.




                                                                                Choosing a mode
                                                                                will switch the
                                                                                system into that
                                                                                mode.

                                                                                Note     DL – Data
                                                                                Link mode is
                                                                                currently N.I.




Learning Centre                              194         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
HAS Delivery Mode 2

HAS (HARM As Sensor) mode uses the HARM seeker video to locate threats.
HAS mode works under the MFD WPN page as it is a weapon-based system. Therefore, it only
exists when there is an appropriate weapon on board which is selected as the current weapon.

HAS MFD page:




The Detected Threat Status Box (DTSB), Near the top of the MFD contains the threat types
detected by the HARM seeker-head. Detected threats are displayed left to right (up to 5 threats).

* After a threat Handoff, the detected threats remain displayed.
* Threats are blanked from the DTSB when no longer detected.

ALIC (Aircraft Launcher Interface Computer) video of detected threats is displayed in the center of
the HAS WPN page. The ALIC provides 2 video displays:

* Display used for searching
* Display used after Hand-off

The detected threats are displayed on the relative azimuth and elevation from the nose of the missile.
When detected, the threats are displayed with an appropriate identification symbol. Detected threats
are stationary with respect to the ground as the aircraft rolls and pitches.
Threats are displayed at the bottom line of the video when they go below the seeker-head FOV.


Please Note - When switching to HAS mode, SOI will not automatically pass to the WPN page.
              One must pass it manually, using DMS-down.

2
    The notes for this Section are taken from the MLU Manual…

Learning Centre                                      195        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Pressing OSB #1 will switch the system back to the mode choosing menu

Pressing OSB #3 for FOV selection will change the FOV of the display between Wide (WIDE),
(which is the default view) and Center (CTR), which gives a “Zoomed” view of the display. 3

Pressing OSB #4 will get you to the Search Select Page. More details about this page later.

HAS search mode takes time to process all detected threats, and display them. This results in threats
NOT being shown instantly on the display, but having a DELAY before showing up. The length of
the delay, depends on how many threats there are. So – an evaluation of the worst scan time will be
displayed just above the ALIC display.

Pressing OSB #7 will restart the scan cycle, and blank previously displayed threats.


After a threat is Handed-off to the missile, the display changes to represent the missile boresight,
and the threat video responds to aircraft roll, pitch, and azimuth changes.

“RDY” is displayed after the Handoff is complete. If the threat leaves the missile FOV, the
Hand-off is dropped; the ALIC returns to the search mode; and, the display reverts back to the
PRE-Hand-off format. While in Hand-off mode, the other detected threat types are blanked from the
display (but still show up in DTSB).




NOTE          Releasing a missile in HAS mode before the Handoff is complete (you can judge this, by
              the “RDY” text at screen’s bottom) will cause the missile to miss…!!



3
    In the real system there are also Right and Left zoom modes which aren’t implemented at this stage.


Learning Centre                                         196           F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
While in HAS search mode there is now an option to filter out the threat-types which will be
detected by the system.

Pressing OSB #4 while in the HAS search mode will get you to the Search Select Page:




There are 4 filtering choices

   1. ALL – All threats will be detected (default)

   2. HP – High Priority – Only high priority threats will be detected. Basically, only SAMs and
      AAA radars.

   3. HA – High Altitude – Only high altitude threats will be detected. Basically, only the high
      altitude SAMs radars.

   4. LA – Low Altitude – Only low altitude threats will be detected. Basically, only small and
      low altitude SAMs radars, and AAA radars.

   Pressing one of the OSBs 17-20 will assign the selected filtering mode and will get the display
   back to the HAS search page. Assigning different filtering modes, may also affect search times,
   as there may be less threats processed. Pressing OSB #1 will take you back to the HAS search
   page without changing the selected threats filtering mode.


Developer’s Note       The Real-Life system does not work this way. However, the idea is basically
the same. The real system detects threats based on pre-defined threat tables. Such an option is not
implemented, at this time, so the threats are detected by their corresponding symbols, and the
filtering process works as noted above. The real system has the pre-defined threats assigned to
OSBs, and each may be selected by pressing the corresponding OSB.



Learning Centre                              197         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
POS delivery mode
In the POS mode, the aircraft attitude and target position are passed to the missile.
After launch, the missile flies to the location of the target, based on those exact coordinates.

Note – POS mode in the real system has 3 sub-modes (or flight profiles): EOM (Equation Of
Motion), RUK (Range Unknown) and PB (Pre Briefed). Currently only PB mode is implemented.




Display information4

The Detected Threats Status Box (DTSB) is just below the top line of text, and contains the threat
that is Handed-off when detected by the missile. When deselected, the threat is blanked from the
DTSB.

The center of the HARM WPN page contains missile employment information. It is divided into
two sections (Pre-launch + Post-Lauch) by a Launch Status Divider Line (LSDL).

Pre-launch information is displayed below the LSDL, and directly above the selected missile
station. Pre-launch information includes: The selected threat type; The selected threat position
(steerpoint number); Missile estimated Time Of Flight (TOF) (in mm:ss format); Time On Target
(TOT) (in hh:mm:ss; 24 hour format); and, missile loaded stations (Selected station is highlighted).
The above data is displayed from top down.

Post-launch information is displayed above the LSDL line in reverse order (bottom to top).
Post-launch includes: The threat type attacked; The threat location; and, estimated Time Until
Impact (TUI). The TUI is displayed for five seconds after reaching zero (00:00). Post-launch data
is retained and displayed until power is cycled or inventory is changed.


4
    From the MLU Manual…

Learning Centre                                198          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Some explanations on operating the POS mode in FreeFalcon 5.0

In the real system, pre-defined steerpoints are used as HARM POS steerpoints that might later be
used as exact locations or reference locations for POS threats.

In FF - since the DTC, or similar system is not yet implemented - steerpoint position is used to
allow pre-briefed launch. So this is what you should do in order to attack a pre-briefed radar threat:

   1. Before flight, on the UI map, locate the threat (probably SAM radar etc) and note the
      coordinates.
   2. Insert the coordinates via ICP buttons into one of the valid steerpoints (do not use first, last
      or 2nd last steerpoints. The system doesn’t use such steerpoints)

   3. Choose the ARM weapon which is POS capable (not all are) and navigate to the POS Page.
      Now, the pre-briefed threat symbol should show near one of the 17-20 OSBs.
   4. Click on the corresponding OSB in order to Handoff the threat to the missile, while Handed-
      off, the corresponding symbol will be highlighted until the Handoff is complete, and pre-
      launch information will be displayed above the LSDL.
   5. When Hand-off is complete (make sure of that or the missile will miss) and missile is in-
      range (no HUD symbols, as yet…!), one may fire the missile.
   6. Note that a post-launch information data display is showing up above the LSDL line, and
      that the TUI timer is ticking down.


Note POS mode allows you to target pre-briefed threats even before they emit any radar
energy. At times, a great solution against tough SAM systems (like the SA-10, etc).




                                   Developer’s Note Sometimes, even when this procedure is
                                   followed, and the coordinates are inserted to a valid steerpoint,
                                   the symbol might not show up at all stages of flight. This might
                                   berelated to Falcon’s bubble. Getting closer to the area of the
                                   threat should make it show up.

                                   Developer’s Note While in POS mode (and sometimes HAS
                                   mode), Tertiary table on OSB #2, UFC button on OSB #5 for
                                   DED threat table access, Geographic Specificity (GS ON, GS
                                   OF) on OSB #9, and Target Isolate (TI) on OSB #10 are NI (not
                                   implemented).




Learning Centre                                199         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
HTS Targeting
HTS targeting is available only for aircraft which have the option of carrying the HTS pod (or
equivalent system for non- F-16’s). The HTS display information is now available on a separate
MFD page called HAD (HARM Attack Display). HAD mode is now part of the MFD main menu,
and may be selected via OSB #2.

Note that if no HTS pod is onboard, the HAD page will be blanked if selected.




                                                                                Left:

                                                                                The HAD display
                                                                                with AGM-88
                                                                                HARM missile as
                                                                                current weapon.




Learning Centre                              200        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Basically the improved HTS display works similar to the old display (the one which was attached to
the SMS page), with some added features. FOV can be changed via OSB #3, stepping between
“NORM”, “EXP1” and “EXP2”. The normal mode is a normalized display with the AC ownship
marker at a fixed point and detected threats changing position accordingly, while EXP1 and EXP2
modes, “freeze” the display when selected, and allow a “Zoomed” view of the area selected by the
cursor. Each zoom mode doubles up the zoom, in relation to the current selected range.

HAD range can be changed between 8 to 120NM and is now independent of HSD range.
Displayed threats may be filtered by selecting the “THRT” button at OSB #4 which will get you to
the Search Select page that is operated and read exactly the same way as for the HAS mode Search
Select (see above).

The Missile footprint is based on current weapon Rmax range and will grow/shrink according to the
aircraft’s flight properties (speed, altitude, etc) which affect missile Max-Range. The Cursor is
moved around normally (while HAD is the SOI) and selects threats to be handed off to the missile.

Threats are now colored based on current state:

Green                Non-emitting threat
Yellow               Emitting threat
Red                  Tracking threat
Flashing Red         Launching threat



EXP1 mode:




In the expanded mode, the display is “frozen” and the only thing that moves around might be the
ownship marker and a possible moving threat. The Ownship marker will turn around as the aircraft
is changing orientation towards the displayed threats.




Learning Centre                             201         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
A note on         ARM Targeting
ARM targeting is possible using the missile's own sensor (located
physically on the missile), or the dedicated sensor of the HTS pod
(attached physically to the aircraft).

 If the HTS pod is carried by the aircraft, you have the choice between
HAS targeting (using the missile sensor) or HTS targeting (using the pod
attached to your AC).

Due to the less sensitive nature of the missile’s sensor, in HAS mode
radar symbols will NOT show different states, like ‘emitting’, ‘non-emitting’,
‘tracking’, or ‘launching’. Only the HTS pod is powerful enough to be able
to discern this information.

So if the aircraft carries an HTS-pod, it may be advisable for the pilot to
use HTS Targeting, in preference to the HAS Mode.




Learning Centre                      202     F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
AAF




 As per the MLU Manual, MFDs now feature an Attitude Advisory Function (AAF)

 An attitude advisory is triggered when all of the following conditions exist:

        1) TGP format is displayed
        2) TGP mode is A-G
        3) INS attitude data is valid
        4) Aircraft exceeds any of these defined attitudes:
               a) Bank > 75 deg; Pitch < 0 deg.
               b) Pitch < -20 deg

 When these conditions are met, a flashing rectangular box with the double set of words
 “CHECK ATTITUDE” (see picture above) is displayed on both MFDs.

 The attitude advisory is disabled whenever one or more of the four conditions listed above no
 longer exist.

 As per the MLU, the “Check Attitude” box default colour is red.




Learning Centre                              203         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
A note on            Grayscale MFDs
                                                              In Real Life, both Green
                                                              and Gray MFDs are
                                                              present in the Viper.
                                                              It largely depends on
                                                              Block/Upgrades and
                                                              Airforce.


                                                              In FF5, GRAYSCALE
                                                              MFDs are selectable in
                                                              both TGP and WPN modes.
                                                              GRAYSCALE is also
                                                              selectable with TFR.



So, if - for example - one were using Mavericks with a green display, one would simply
press the “GRAY ON” OSB to change to Gray. Conversely, pushing the “GRAY OFF”
OSB, would change from Grayscale to Green.




The “GRAY OFF” + “GRAY ON” OSBs
are clearly seen in these pictures...




Learning Centre                          204       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
       TWS                               [Guiding On Multiple Threats]




                                                                        Instructor: Jaeger_301




Tired of waiting until your missile goes “Pitbull”…?
There is a way to max out your resources with the AMRAAM and TWS.




Why Deploy ‘Track While Scan’ (TWS)…?
One of many problems with the early SARH missiles was that the radar had to be locked in the STT
mode (Single Target Track), and – as a result – the pilot’s Situational Awareness (SA) was ruined.

As a solution to this breaking of the SA, both the TWS radar mode, and the AMRAAM missile 5
were developed. TWS is able to track multiple targets simultaneously, and can guide up to four (4)
missiles to different targets at the same time.

To achieve this result, every missile in TWS has a specific ID for the target and the missile.

TWS allows the Pilot to launch missiles almost simultaneously against different targets, whilst also
selecting the closest possible threats.

CAUTION TWS locks onto the closest possible threat …!
In order to be certain it is not a friendly aircraft, be sure to declare with AWACS.

Be aware, once you have bugged a target, the scan is limited to a 3 bar - / + 25 degrees cone.


5
    Advanced Medium Range Air to Air Missile


Learning Centre                                205         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Considerations of Deployment:
The following procedure works best against slow moving targets, like bombers or transporters.
Due to the weaker Radar beam in TWS, it is likely that the radar lock will break more often.

This limitation means that the procedure below, is not recommended against agile targets.



Launching Missiles in TWS Mode:

FIRST:

           Change the Radar mode in your left MFD to TWS.
           Change your right MFD to SMS.
           One should now see the ID1 symbology in the right MFD


                   TWS




                                                                          ID
                                                                          1
NEXT:

           Lock the target (also know as “bugging” the target)


There are two ways to ‘bug’ a target.
       1. Slew the cursor over a track file and designate it.
       2. TMS + Right 6 to bug the closest tracked target. 7


6
    Keystroke = Right Ctrl + Right Arrow
7
    Further TMS + Right will scroll through the available targets.
    One may deselect a bugged target with TMS + Down


Learning Centre                                           206        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
 LAUNCH SEQUENCE:

1st Target
       Assign the first target with TMS + Right      ID is ID1
       Launch

2nd Target
       TMS + Right and select ID2
       Launch

3rd + 4th Targets

       After each launch, change the ID (up to ID4),
       For the 5th missile, click again on ID, and it will return to ID1.



Things to Avoid:

Do not launch the 1st missile in RWS and then switch to TWS before the first missile goes “pitbull”.


Do not hard-lock or STT when a missile in TWS mode is in flight.
The TWS ID is lost, and the missile will go “maddog”.


Do not launch several missiles with the same ID.
Every missile will go for the same target, even when you bug a different target with the radar.




Learning Centre                                207         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
      A note on       MADDOG

      Shooting MADDOG…?

      Be sure your Radar is set to BORESIGHT MODE.



      Without it, your MADDOG will NOT find it’s target…!




Learning Centre              208      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Rockets                          with Snail

Rockets are back in FreeFalcon. Though it is a WWII weapon (as is the cannon) they are fun to use.
Here is a guide to the Training Mission.

Training TE: # 23 rockets

Rockets are unguided. There is only a predicting HUD sight with a pipper, but this isn’t accurate,
due to the nature of this weapon. The more horizontal rockets are fired, the less accurate the pipper
is. So nose down is the best way to use them.

Initial conditions: you start in the air, flying an AJS37 Viggen.

Your Viggen is loaded with 4 rocket pods, each containing 6 rockets. In FreeFalcon5 a rocket pod is
fired totally when you pickle once; you can’t select individual rockets to be fired. The pods can be
fired single or in pairs. You are flying at 7,000 feet altitude, 390 kts, 15 miles from the target. The
target is an airfield with “Bear” bombers present on the RAMP.

There is plenty of time to look around, and make the necessary preparations.

Procedure:

First choose Air-to-ground weapons by pushing the AG button on the Right Hand Panel.
In the Radar Screen (MFD) you’ll see the rockets available. You can choose between single or pairs.




       Centre MFD                                           The HUD in 2D view looks like above.



The airfield is in sight. The double circle is the rocket
pipper. The inner circle becomes active when the
ground is within reasonable range. As you get closer it
disappears slowly; counter-clockwise.



                      Here are the parked TU95’s




Learning Centre                                209          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                                               Keep flying level until you are close to the airfield
                                               (approx 3 miles; check it with Right DMS).

                                               You will probably have to maneuver a bit to get the target at the
                                               right spot.

                                               When you are within range, the airfield is beyond your HUD
                                               sight; you need to enter a steep dive.




Dive. The airfield appears in the HUD and there is your
target: nicely lined up. At this point you have little time to
move your plane in the right direction. When the inner circle
of the pipper has disappeared and the outer circle has got a
‘hat’ you are definitely in range. As you can see, the dive
angle is approx. 30 degrees. Point the pipper at the closest
aircraft and fire your rockets. They will probably hit some
aircraft in the middle of the row.




Where the rockets explode, depends on your dive angle and altitude.
The steeper and lower you fly, the closer they will hit to the predicted impact point.


While you gain speed, pull your stick in time to avoid lawn-darting. Now maneuver your aircraft in
a position for a second pass. And when you are out of rockets, you can end this session practicing
air-to-air kills with your gun because despite of the havoc you have caused, some TU’s will have
taken off. Have fun!




There are two known issues: a rocket pod is a single 3D model, so there is no visual difference between a filled and an empty pod. As
this document is written, damaged or destroyed targets won’t show up in the debrief.




                                                                                                          Frits
Learning Centre                                             210             F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
l a n d i n g                                            t h e                        v i p e r
Instructor:     Paul “S.O.W.” Wilson
Ever since Falcon 4.0™ came out, one of the most difficult tasks for people new to the program has been
figuring out how to land properly. This tutorial was written for those people who are looking for a landing
technique that they can use for their F4.0 experience.

Still, don't get the idea that this is only a tutorial for beginners. Many people are able to land just fine but they
may not be landing in a way that is safe or easy. I personally had a great system for landing that I used for
almost a year before learning of another system that worked better. I took it upon myself to learn how to land
using this new system.

The system I refer to is based on the approach that real F-16 pilots use to land the real aircraft.

Some of you may find that this approach is
much different from the one you have used in
the past. If you are interested in landing
properly like a real F-16 pilot, or if you are
simply interested in seeing how it is done,
read on!

Perhaps most people who land using Falcon
4.0™ monitor their Flight Path Marker (FPM)
and airspeed above all else. The approach
that I outline below ignores airspeed and
places emphasis on the AOA bracket. By
using the FPM and AOA bracket, you can do
very nice landings at any weight without
having to monitor airspeed at all. In fact, you
will notice that the airspeed isn't displayed at
all in any of my screenshots below!

Once you are on the glideslope and your
speed is low enough to drop your gear, you
can ignore airspeed and focus on landing
using the FPM and its relation to the runway
and the AOA bracket. Once you follow the
proper procedure for landing, your airspeed
will be exactly where it should be
automatically.

The image above shows both the FPM and the AOA bracket. They are both outlined inside of a red square.


You will all be familiar with the FPM but you might not be familiar with the AOA bracket.

The AOA bracket is a bracket shaped item on the HUD that indicates your angle of attack (the number of
degrees between the direction of travel - the FPM - and the direction your nose is pointed - the gun cross) .

It generally appears on the HUD after you lower your landing gear -

        If the FPM is above the AOA bracket then your angle of attack is lower than 11 degrees.
        If it is at the top of the bracket (see image above), then you are at 11 degrees angle of attack (AOA).
        If in the middle you are at 13 degrees AOA (optimum AOA for landing)
        If at the bottom then you are at 15 degrees AOA (too high of an AOA for a safe landing).




Learning Centre                                      217           F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Okay. Hopefully you have an understanding of what we’ve discussed above, so – let’s move on to:



L A N D I N G                                               T H E                         F - 1 6
When approaching the runway and within a few miles distance, lower your brake and get your speed below
250kts. Lower your gear when it is safe to do so.

You will want your glideslope to be 2.5 to 3 degrees. If the front of the runway lies in the middle of the 0 and -
5 degree pitch ladder on the HUD then you will know that your glideslope is correct.

A dotted line can be seen in between the 0 and -5 pitch ladder. This is the 2.5 degree Pitch Indicator Line.




                   This 2.5 degree line can help you make sure you are on the glideslope:

              If you are above the glideslope then the runway threshold will be below the 2.5 pitch line.
              If you are below the glideslope then the runway threshold will be above the 2.5 pitch line.




Learning Centre                                     218          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Once you are on the proper glideslope, place your FPM on the front of the runway using the control stick.


                                                    This event can be seen in the image at left.

                                                    There is another way to know whether you are on the
                                                    glideslope or not. You can use the VASI lights which are
                                                    located at the front of the runway.

                                                    On each side of the runway you will see two sets of lights.
                                                    One set sits in front of the other.

                                                    If both sets of lights are "white" then you are too high.
                                                    You need to lower your altitude and get back onto the
                                                    glideslope.

                                                    When you are on the glideslope the far set of lights will be
                                                    red and the close set will be white.

                                                    If you are low then both sets of lights will be red. You will
                                                    need to gain altitude to get back onto the glideslope.


                                “WHITE OVER WHITE”            Too MUCH height.
                                 “RED OVER WHITE”            You’re ALL RIGHT.
                                    “RED OVER RED”            You’re DEAD.




Very good. Two things have now occurred:

1. We are now on the 2.5 degree glideslope (the runway threshold is on the 2.5 degree pitch ladder line).
2. The FPM is sitting on the front of the runway.

There is now a third thing we need to do. We need to get the FPM to the top of the AOA bracket.

We can control our angle of attack using the throttle. If the FPM is above the AOA bracket then you will need
to reduce power so that your AOA increases. I will usually drop the throttle completely to idle.

Remember to keep the FPM on the front of the runway while you increase your AOA. With your throttle at
idle the separation will happen quickly.

In the image above the FPM would meet the top of the bracket on idle in about 10-15 seconds. Once you
have gotten the FPM near to the top of the AOA bracket you will need to increase your power to keep the
FPM at the top of the bracket.

Usually a setting of 6000 fuel flow for light aircraft or 6500 fuel flow for heavy will keep you on the top of the
bracket with no real problems.




Learning Centre                                     219           F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
         The image below is probably the most important image in this tutorial.
                           It shows an F-16 properly aligned for landing:




You will notice that all three conditions are now met:

        We are on the glideslope. The dotted 2.5 degree ladder is at the front of the runway.
        The FPM is at the front of the runway.
        The FPM is lined up with the top of the AOA Bracket.


In other words, the front of the runway, the 2.5 degree pitch ladder, the FPM and the top of the AOA bracket
are all lined up with each other.

Now all you need to do is HOLD IT THERE…!




    Gorny’s Tip: So – you’ve found the Aces II Ejection seat…? Listen up. Hands are sweating; facial
    muscles are twitching; you shift uncomfortably in your seat – you’re on FINAL APPROACH…! What
    could be worse? Your lover appears behind you and says: “Wow. You’re gonna land. Can I watch…?”
    Now, you just KNOW you’re gonna “lawn dart”! FEAR NOT. Say excitedly: “Land…? No way. Watch
    THIS…!” Now, pull the Ejection Handle and exclaim: “WOW…! Para-Gliding…!
    FreeFalcon has EVERYTHING…!”




 On the following page are four (4) images showing the glideslope alignment problems, and their solutions.




Learning Centre                                  220          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                        In this image, the FPM is above the Runway
                        Threshold.

                        All you need to do is push forward on the stick to
                        get yourself back on the runway.

                        Make sure you are still on the Glideslope.




                        This image shows the FPM too low in relation to the
                        runway.

                        The solution…? You guessed it…!

                        STICK BACK.




                    This image shows the AOA too low.

                        (The FPM is above the bracket)


                    Decrease power slightly to get your AOA up.




                        This image shows the FPM deep in the AOA bracket.


                        Here the FPM isn’t in a really bad position, but you
                        may want to think about adding a touch of power if it
                        begins to drop anymore.




Learning Centre   221           F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Here is a final image for reference purposes. It comes from the F-16C/D FLIGHT MANUAL (T.O.1F-16C-1).
This particular image shows the 11 degree AOA as being fast, but that is OK for the approach.




OK, so that is basically it.

You will want to control the location of the FPM with the stick and the AOA with the throttle.

Once you get used to this then landing becomes easy. Once all three conditions are met, and you are on a
proper approach, your speed will be exactly where it should be (about 160 kts for a light aircraft and 170-180
kts for a heavy one).

This approach of monitoring the FPM marker and the AOA bracket is helpful in that you don't have to worry
about proper speeds for proper weight. Many F4.0 pilots find themselves falling out of the sky because they
attempt landings using speed and get their speed wrong (too slow). A high airspeed results in lower AOA
landings that could have dire consequences in the form of bouncing or crashing. Staying on the glideslope
with a proper AOA keeps you from having to worry about airspeed at all.

Here is that important image again showing an optimal glideslope approach with all three conditions met.




                                                  I have placed a red box around that area of the screen
                                                  showing what you will want to look at clear up until the
                                                  point where you flare.

                                                  You can basically ignore looking at airspeed, altitude, fuel
                                                  flow, the AOA light, etc. Still, there is certainly no problem
                                                  with looking around the cockpit occasionally. I personally
                                                  have a habit of taking glances at the fuel flow but that is
                                                  just me. The great thing about using the FPM and AOA
                                                  bracket almost exclusively for landing is that airspeed
                                                  magically takes care of itself and you can keep your eyes
                                                  on a small area of the HUD at almost all times. This helps
                                                  decrease the workload while keeping SA high.




Learning Centre                                   222          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                                                      Over the threshold and ready to flare.




                                                      I’m now within seconds of landing. I gently flare a little by
                                                      pulling back on the stick. This causes the FPM to move
                                                      down the length of the runway. You need only a TINY
                                                      flare (as you are only transitioning from 11° to the optimal
                                                      AOA of 13°). I also decrease my power as I pull back, and
                                                      let the aircraft settle those last few feet to the runway.




TOUCHDOWN…!

12° – 13° AOA. Your jet will “stick” to the ground.


Be careful with the FLARE. It is easy to flare too much and
find yourself floating above the runway without settling.
Cutting the power helps a lot. Try a few different Flares,
and see what works for you.

Be careful. It is easy to flare TOO much, and find yourself
at 15° of AOA.



Once you become proficient at this landing technique,
you will be able to drop your tires to the pavement at
the correct AOA, Speed, and Location on the runway.




              Paul Wilson
Learning Centre                                       223          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
A note on              CCIP bombing
There have been some concerns raised about the visibility of the Pipper,
during CCIP bombing. In some cases, the Pipper will be BELOW the HUD,
and – thus – invisible to the Pilot. Certainly problematic.
The following techniques will help.

* If in 2D ‘Pit – switch to 3D ‘pit, and then BACK to 2D ‘pit.
The pipper will now be visible.

* IF in 3D ‘Pit – switch to 2D ‘Pit, and then BACK to 3D ‘Pit.
The pipper will now be visible.

This will ONLY be effective if your FOV is set to 75 or 85 in the Config Editor.

* Conduct your CCIP pickle in the HUD-ONLY view.
The cockpits of all FF5 jets have been optimized for CCIP in the “1” view
If using the HUD-ONLY view, the targeting cues will be precise.

The HUD-View option is both recommended, and failsafe.


 Snail Says: Some 2D ‘Pits do not have an accurate HUD placement. Therefore, the position
 of the Pipper in the 2D ‘Pit will not match the position of the Pipper in the HUD-Only View.

 BEFORE reaching your target, you should ALWAYS use an object or piece of
 terrain to compare the position of the pipper in both the “2” view and the “1” view.
 IF they do not match, you must use the HUD-Only view for accurate CCIP.




                                                                              Ara’

Learning Centre                              224         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
A note on                  Precision Waypoints
When you have a specific, small, non-moving ground target, (like an SAM2 radar unit or an
underground factory) which you want to attack with 'dumb' bombs, it helps to use a
precision waypoint. It also helps if you have to hit a small target with LGB’s. If you enter
the right coordinates into your FCC, the waypoint diamond in the HUD will be at the exact
position to make a pinpoint CCRP or CCIP attack.

There are two stages      Preflight and In-flight.

Preflight: Recon the target. Click on the exact object you want to attack. In the Recon
screen you will find the coordinates of that object (e.g. 38.50.02 / 127.17.02). On a piece
of paper, write down these coordinates and the number of the attack waypoint). You need
at least six (6) digits in the coordinate. “Omissions” are written as “0”. For example -
37.1.84 = 37.01.84.

Pictured below is an example of an underground factory. The factory is selected in the
target list, and the coordinates are shown at the left upper corner of the recon screen:




                            Target
                          Coordinates



                        Desired Target
                       (Underground Factory)




Learning Centre                             225      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
 In-flight: Whilst on the RAMP - or during ingress - switch to the attack waypoint on the
DED. Then, on the ICP, push “LIST” and “T-ILS 1”. The DED shows the coordinates of the
selected waypoint. Now, the first set of coordinates can be changed. Enter the desired
LAT coordinates (in this example: 38 50 02). Push ENTR on the ICP.




                                                                    LAT
                                                                 Coordinates

        T-ILS
          1                     LIST




                                           LNG
                                        Coordinates          Then - enter the LNG
                                                             coordinates. Note, there
                                                             may only be six (6) digits
                                                             visible, but if the coordinate
                                                             has seven (7) numbers, you
                                                             MUST enter the whole
                                                             string of SEVEN
                                                             numbers...!




Push enter (ENTR) on the ICP.

If you click return (RTN) on the dobber switch you'll have the usual DED readout again.



Learning Centre                          226        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
IMPORTANT      Don't forget to switch back to your current waypoint.
Now - when you approach that barely visible target - there is a nice diamond on top of it.



Don't miss...!




Known issue: Sometimes the DED doesn’t accept the input of coordinates.
Solution: Move the dobber switch to SEQ and RTN, then try again (from LIST + 1).




                                                                        Frits

Learning Centre                           227        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
A.I. Management




So - your A.I. is as dumb as dog’s balls...? There ARE workarounds, or - rather - ways of
working WITH the A.I., and strategies to get the most out of your Artificial Wingmen. In
addition, FF5 features some development of AI behavior with regards “hard-deck” and
altitude considerations.

There is no underlying “structure” to this Section. Rather, it is a series of short tips and
hints - “one-point lessons”, if you prefer - to help raise your understanding of the A.I., whilst
shedding light on some of the issues it presents. A more thorough understanding of the
A.I. and its limitations, will result in the Virtual Pilot getting the most out of their A.I.
controlled allies.




Learning Centre                             228        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Script Monkeys:
The first and fundamental point to understand is that there is NO “Artificial Intelligence”.
“Reactions” are based upon “pre-existing conditions”. Simply - Hustler advises that one
should drop the term “A.I.”, and replace it with the term: “Script Monkey”. As in a “less
than intelligent” entity, which simply follows the script placed before it.
This may be a rather shattering revelation to the F4.0 devotee, yet it is important to
understand this basic distinction between “Intelligence” and “Math Co-processor”. After all,
it is not possible to use one’s tools effectively, until one has a complete understanding of
the fundamental nature of those tools.
For the purpose of “Suspension of Disbelief” (and for the sake of tradition), the terms “A.I.”
and “Script Monkey” remain interchangeable in this article.


Talking to the Monkeys:
An understanding of all radio-commands is essential.
However, some of the more critical command's are:

Rejoin       Especially important for Carrier Op's. Upon take-off, if one fails to call “rejoin”,
the AI flight will return immediately to its land-based strip.
Close up     Used with “rejoin” to reign in stragglers. The closer the AI is, the easier to
monitor and adjust their behavior.
Weapons free       Used at IP/Fence in to get the A.I. ready to fight.
Attack my Target       Used to hand off a target. Designate the target, by padlocking it, or
locking it on your Radar, or by slewing your cursors over it. Be aware - if you order your
Element to “attack my target”, sometimes both the 3rd and 4th A/C in your flight will attack!
the target. For example, if a J-5 were approaching your four-ship flight, and you issued an
“attack my target” order, all of the A.I. may attack the J-5. Both overkill, and a waste of
ordnance on a low-threat target. In this case, it would be far more efficient to order your
Wingman to attack; thus using one missile instead of two.
Attack Targets        Encourages the AI to attack other targets. If used on a group of
vehicles, the A.I. will attack as many different targets as possible. This also applies to
many enemy A/C within a close airspace.
Resume Mission         gets the A.I. back on AG after a Dogfight.
Go Fluid        If a three or four ship flight, one may consider issuing a “Go Fluid” command
to all A.I., as soon as the last A/C has taken off. This will get “3” and “4” to close up the
gap to leader. From here, they are much closer during weapons release A-A or A-G.
Go Lower         If you want to sneak into enemy territory whilst using NoE, and wish the AI
to do the same, you can use the "Go lower" command multiple-times. That'll ensure the AI
flies really close to the ground. Once you reach the target area and want to pop-up, you'll
have to use the “Re-Join” command, or else the A.I. will continue to fly NoE...!
Return to Base        Perhaps the most reliable of all orders. But, be aware: Unless they
are “bingo fuel”, the A.I. will always fly to the the penultimate or last waypoint, BEFORE
returning to base.




Learning Centre                              229        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Monkeys and Self-Preservation:
The A.I. will NOT obey your commands if threatened, or in danger. If the A.I. reaches
bingo fuel, they will try to find their way to the nearest friendly airbase or airstrip. At this
time, they will ignore your orders. Your wingman/ element won't obey your orders if they
are under attack. This includes missile threats, both incoming and simply “detected”. A.I.
self-defense overwrites all of your orders, including “weapons free” and “attack target(s).
Obviously, as the situation becomes more “crowded”, the A.I. will become more rebellious.
Self-preservation means that A.I. priorities will not always match what you ask. Also, your
self-preservation skills are most likely better than the A.I.. Use the A.I. to attack the J-5,
whilst you take out the MiG-29. Your missile evasion skills are better than the A.I. and you
are able to configure your EWS more efficiently.

Ordnance Concerns:
* Deployment of weapons depends on the current active steerpoint and on the TYPE of
steerpoint. For example, one may put any AG weapons on A.I. controlled A/C, but they
will NEVER use them if you only have only DCA, Sweep steerpoints in your flight-plan.
* If you fly and OCA, SEAD, CAS, interdiction type missions the “weapons free” command
is effective for A-G weapons, as the AI will try to use them if there are ground targets
within range. The usable steerpoint names are: S&D, IP, TGT, SEAD.
* The A.I. will NOT use GUNS against ground targets...! If issuing an “attack” order
against an A-G target to an A.I. who is Winchester, you will always receive an “unable”
response.

* If the flight aircraft has multiple kind of weapons on-board, and the human pilot uses all of
one kind of weapons, then AI pilots in the flight will not be able to use the same weapon,
even if they have it onboard...! Example: if the human pilot uses up all his AGM-65s (or
CBUs, or MRMs), the AI will not use it even if the weapon is available on the jet...!! Ensure
that you keep at least ONE piece of the desired ordnance on your jet until the A.I. have
expended all of theirs. Once the A.I. have released all of that weapon-type, the Human
pilot can deploy his last piece of ordnance.

* The burst altitude for the AI's CBU's is set by "YOUR" burst altitude.

The Hard-Deck:
Much work has been done in developing a “hard-deck” for the A.I. in FF5. This has been
adjusted to be both A/C and weapon specific. Obviously, one would expect to see the
Buffs operating at higher altitudes than the A-10’s. Additionally, the MANPAD threat has
been tweaked to reflect a more realistic hazard. Thus - the new “hard-decks” will help to
keep the A.I. out of harm’s way. One will find the A.I. climbing or diving to “hard-decks”
once “attack” orders have been issued. The development of these “hard-decks” will give a
further boost to the appearance of “Intelligence” in our A.I.



    RAM22        Something I find helps me control the
    wingies a little better, I first give them Rejoin,
    followed by Resume Briefed Mission and if they
    don’t respond, I repeat.




Learning Centre                              230         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
  A note on         RECON
There are several aircraft which have Recon Roles. Aircraft which have these
roles include the SR-71, which is featured in your “It’s the Pits” TE.


When creating your own TE’s, be aware that, this Recon feature is subject to a
“Role Bug”. There is a simple workaround for this.


Mission types in the Recon mode are ‘Recon’, ‘BDA’, ‘Patrol’ and ‘Recon Patrol’.


The problem occurs when you create these type of missions either for the AI to fly
(or Combat Autopilot), the flight will not go to target but - at some point – will
divert, and possibly just fly off in to the wild blue yonder.


To make the mission work you must edit the Flight Plan after you create the
mission.


At each STPT where the Action is to ‘Recon’, change the Action to ‘Nav’.




  Learning Centre                    231      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Airmobile II
Subject:        Creating AirMobile missions in FreeFalcon
Mission:        Create C-130 and AN-72 AirMobile missions in the Tactical Engagement Editor.
Objectives:     Several. First - a bit advanced. Remainder - easier, but with attention to detail.
Author:         Dave “DewDog_2” Wagner


Requirements:

       FF Config Editor update to select easier map when in the TE Editor.
       This PDF Tutorial.
       A Tactical Engagement placed in your Falcon4/campaign/SAVE directory –
       AirMobile Techniques.tac


Pre-discussion:

This training manual updates the AirMobileTrainer I did back in February of 2004. It applies to
missions to be created in FreeFalcon. If any changes in future, will update.

Hopefully you have some familiarity with creating TE’s. This is not intended to be a basic TE
instruction manual. A good TE is all about timing. In AirMobile creation, we make exact
placement of objects, and make critical adjustments to timing and distances.

Definitions:

Grid Point   Places on a map that ground units travel from one place to another. Grid Points are
Towns, Bridges, Airbases, Factories and other fixed objects on the map.

Bubble    The distance between units that an Object ‘de-aggregates’ or becomes visible. We are
concerned with the Bubble of Aircraft, which is about 30 miles.

STPx       Steerpoints in a Flight Plan, where ‘x’ is the number of the Steerpoint.

AirMobile (Amob         The role of the aircraft we will use to pickup (PU) units.


OBJECTIVE ‘Capture the Flag’: We will make a C-130 Amob flight to move a Combat Unit
to Capture and Defend an Objective. It also applies to the DPRK’s AN-72 – their equivalent
aircraft. You can also use the AN-2 and AN-12 if you choose

Some helicopters - both enemy and friendly are now able to have Amob roles. You use the same
rules as the fixed wing aircraft. It is delightful to watch them takeoff, fly to PU STPT where they
will land to retrieve their cargo, depart again to the Drop STPT where they will land again to deliver
their goods. Then they depart and RTB. However to get them to land at Pickup and Drop
steerpoint as well as land when RTB you must edit the Flight Plan and set the elevations to 300'.




Dog’s TE War College                                255       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Creation:
To Capture and Defend an objective (airbase in this case) we must paint the map where the
Objective is located using the Teams Tab. In this mission we paint the area around Kwangju AB to
be DPRK territory. Using the “Add Battalion” button in the editor we place a M1A2 Armored on a
city close to our C130 departure AB. Then click on the tank unit and drag its circle to Kwangju AB.
The right-click on the unit and select ‘Status’. the Objective Kwangju AB. Right-click on the unit
and select ‘Status’. In Figure 1 below you can see that the Status is to ‘Capture Kwangju Airbase’.
These pics are taken directly from the AirMobile Techniques TE included. The map used in the
picture is the TEeditor map that can be enabled in the FF Viper Config Editor. It is very useful to
determine exact road locations.




                                           Placed 97th Armored battalion on the Objective
                                           Right click on it for: Status = Capture




                                                                                           Figure 1
                                                      th
                                                   97 Armored Battalion ordered to Capture Kwangju AB




Dog’s TE War College                            256        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Next, using the “Add Package” button we are going to make an Amob flight, along with an F16
escort, to pick up the cavalry unit and drop it on Kwangju. Click on the cavalry unit and the ADD
PACKAGE screen will open. It is best to use Take Off time so change to that. You can always
change your times later. Then click on the NEW tab. Your ADD FLIGHT window will open.
Select the C-130H for Aircraft, Air Mobile for Role and adjust number 1-4 that you want in the
flight.


When you have done this then click the OK tab. Since we are creating a package, we want to leave
the ADD PACKAGE window open for a moment so do not click on its OK yet. Now you will see a
pre-planned flight for the C-130s. We want to click on the blue triangle (STP4) of the flight plan
and drag it over Kwangju. Zoom in if necessary, as the drop point must exactly cover the center of
the Airbase’s icon. STP2 is the PickUp STP and STP4 is the AirDrop STP. STP3 is where the
flight calls out ‘Nearing Drop Zone’, so slide STP3 nearer to STP4.     See Figure 2.




Figure 2     C-130 tasked to pick up tanks at “2” and drop at “4”.

Note that “3” was moved closer to “4”, as “3” is where they call out “Nearing Drop Point”




Dog’s TE War College                             257       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Now we want to go back to the ADD PACKAGE window and select NEW again. This time we
will select F16s as the aircraft and Escort as the role. Again a pre-planned route will be made and
you will want to drag the target STP to the same area that you moved the C130 STP4.


Click OK on the ADD PACKAGE window and you are done.
Some of the STP’s may show red. This is usually because Speed for that STP was calculated too
low. Just edit those in the Flight Plan for that flight.

In this particular mission we edit the Flight Plan of F16 to add few minutes CAP and then land at
Kwangju after the tanks capture it.

See Figure 3.




 Figure 3    F-16 Escort added, and WP’s changed so it has a CAP section as well as landing at
 Kwangju after the airbase is captured.

 Note – IF the capture is not completed, then aircraft will return to their alternate landing field.




Dog’s TE War College                               258       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
The C-130 STP’s after AirDrop were added to extend flight time and edited to land at Kwangju.

See Figure 4.




 Figure 4 C-130 Flight Plan adjusted for landing after capture.

 Figure 4 shows where you change the Role for C-130 from AirMobile to Air Lift.


A few theatricals added, and the mission is finished. In FF5.0, go to Tactical Engagements/Saved
and select AirMobile Techniques. Take the first flight in the Mission Statement: ‘11:00 Fly Escort
to C130 and CAP prior to land Kwangju’. Caution! There are bogies stationed at Kwangju.
Objective: Relocate a moving Target via Amob            This is easier to make, but one must pay
attention. We create an F16 flight to attack Armored Column near Pohang. We place the enemy
Armored Unit on a GridPoint near Pohang and place an AN-72 squadron at Pohang. Do NOT have
the Unit move. When it is Air Dropped it will move back to it’s start anyway. One of the weird
things about Falcon is that in the Editor - if you created a Unit to move - it would not move until the
time you placed it on the map. But when you go fly the mission, the Units start moving as soon as
the clock does. So, depending on what time the Amob flight is, the Unit could be far away from
where it was to be picked up.

Click on the tank Unit and create a new package as per above instructions, using the AN-72 as the
aircraft. Adjust the Drop Point STP4 as desired, but again exactly on a GridPoint.



Dog’s TE War College                               259       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
The secret to making a good TE of this type is all in timing of the Pickup and Drop plus distance
spacing. When the player gets into his UI screen to Recon his mission you want the tanks to be
sitting where they started. It is only after one commits to the 3D world that one times the AN-72 to
Pickup and move the unit. Of course the Drop has to be within reason so it reappears to AWACS
(and you) for you to find and do your run-in.

See Figure 5.



                                                  Ask AWACS vector to target…

                                                  OFTEN.




                Pre-Plan CAS.

                What you EXPECTED…




                                                    But … Surprise…!




            AN-72 has Airmobiled the tanks away..!



                                                                                  Figure 5


This is the second mission in Air Mobile Techniques: 12:00 Fly Pre-Plan CAS.

Ask Vector to Target from AWACS often.




Dog’s TE War College                              260       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Objective: Enable Amob to move Air Defense Unit           While this document has focused on Air
Mobile movement of Combat Units, we have not begun to discuss the wide versatility you can have
moving Air Defense Units. My favorite is to have an SA2 dropped somewhere in the path of a
scheduled flight for some surprise elements to a mission. In order for this to work effectively, the
author of the TE must plan carefully so that when his flight members initially join the mission,
perhaps in MP, they will see the original SAM threat circles en-route even though one is being
moved. The way to do this is to put a second SA2 on top of the one to be picked up.

To prevent complete surprise it is only fair to add a JSTAR’s (E-8) to your TE as well as an
AWACS (E-3). The JSTAR will update your SEAD information on your Nav MFD every 30
seconds. (See FF manual or Section 1 for more details).

Again, creating this mission involves the timing of the AN-72 flight to the F16 SEAD flight.
You want the AirDrop to occur in front of the F16s of course, but at a point so as when the SAM
gets dropped, it has time to setup it’s radar and become functional.
If you keep your distance separated from the Air Drop 35-40 miles to stay out of its Bubble, the
time should be enough. See Figure 6.




   F-16 SEAD Flight.
   What you EXPECT to happen
                                                                              In AirMobile Techniques fly
                                                                              the third mission: 13:00 Fly
                                                                              SEAD & DEAD.




                          SURPRISE…!




   AN-72 moves SA-2 right under
   your nose…!
                                                                              Figure 6


Dog’s TE War College                              261       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Objective: Move AirDefenses to assist Air to Air battle   Mission is set similarly to our first one
as far as Take-Off time, and role remains Amob. Again a CAP section was added to the Escort F16s.
Need help while on Cap? See Figure 8. Fly the 14:00 Escort with CAP. You will be a single F16
against possible 3 or more Mig-29’s. Have no fear…. ☺




                                                                                      Figure 7




You may have to do a lot of tweaking, all good TE makers STPend a lot of time doing that…!




Dog’s TE War College                            262       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Final Points:

You can fly as #2 in an AirMobile flight and enjoy the show. You can also fly Lead. You can do
this if your UI Setup is for Combat Autopilot.

If so, when at the Pickup and Drop WP’s, enable Combat Autopilot. Timing will not be same as
Mission was created but close enough. I would not recommend flying Combat Autopilot in the 3rd
mission however. For some reason when the Tanks are moved and you are on Autopilot you flight
will engage the nearby SA-2. I guess its more like ‘target of opportunity’.

Also to have the best results, you and your guests should fly the assigned flight times, STPs and
Assigned Speeds, or things may get whacky….

Unfortunately the TE maker already knows exactly what is going to happen. Well there are
exceptions though. The “Havin Fun” TE in the FF install is one in which there are so many choices
for the AI in A/A attacks that it never plays the same. And of course with the popularity of MP,
having surprise TE’s is a lot more fun than simply point and shoot.

In my opinion, it’s what keeps Falcon alive…!




                                                                 Dave




Dog’s TE War College                              263       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Creating Tactical Engagements Beyond Day One
Creating Tactical Engagements with the TE Editor in Falcon can be accomplished very
simply if you follow some basic rules. You can even have a TE with some flights starting
on one day; other flights on the next.

Placing Combat or Air Defense units that will travel is not an issue. However when you do
that you must realize they will begin to move at the time you run the TE and enter the UI
(User Interface).

Very often when trying to make TE’s past Day 1, the creator will make the flights and then
change Flight Plans for one or more of his Package Units, only to find the TE is simply
corrupted. Not so if you follow these rules…!



Rule 1:
The very first item you want to change is the Main Time. Selecting New opens the TE
Editor page. Main Time is at the top of the page in your editor. You want to click on the
Day number and then move the Arrow Keys to the Day you want to use. Choose any Day
between 1 and 48. You can also highlight the time period if you so desire, either forward
or backward. This will control the settings in the hour when you Add a New Package.




                                     MAIN TIME


                                                           Mouse Click on
                                                           Day Number…

                                                                  Change Date with
                                                                  Arrows…




Dog’s TE War College                         264      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Rule 2:
After you have placed Squadrons on the Airbase(s) you want to use, you normally click on
an area or an Objective or Unit you have placed on the map, and create a flight Package.
When you do that, the Add Package will open. The default time is set for creating a Time
On Target, with the Padlock to the right of the time shown in green. You want to click on
the Takeoff padlock and turn it green so your flight will be created using departure time
instead. You could of course leave it at Time On Target but I find that only creates
problems in editing flights later.




                                                               Changed to Day “4”…




                                                             Click on Padlock & turn it
                                                             Green to change to Take-
                                                             off Time.




It is not necessary to change the Day on the Add Package window.

We will do that next, for each flight created…




Dog’s TE War College                             265   F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Rule 3:
You will now create your Flight(s) or Package of Flights as desired. Rule 3 must be
followed explicitly or you definitely will have problems later. As each flight is created you
must edit its Flight Plan. You can click on the Flight Plan tab if you created a single flight.
If you created a Package with multiple flights, you can open your Package by clicking on
the ATO tab, and selecting the flights one by one to edit each Flight Plan.

The following example shows a Package of two flights, with the first flight’s Flight Plan
opened.




                                                  Already set to “Day 4”




     Open ATO, and select
     each flight to be changed.




Dog’s TE War College                            266      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
What you want to do on each Flight Plan is to change the Date to agree with your Main
Time. In the above example, I have changed it to Day 4. Once you have done this you
are free to change any Time, Steerpoint, and Actions you wish. As you advance your
Flight Plan from Steerpoint 1 to other Steerpoints, you will see that each has the correct
Day. If you now choose to change any Steerpoint for time, it will be first necessary to
Unlock the time by clicking on the Padlock to turn it off from being Gr
Again - once this is done, all periods will change automatically. Let’s say for example that
you created a Flight to Takeoff at 23:50:00 and reach its target at 00:15:00 the next day.
You will see the correct Days are shown for TakeOff and Target Steerpoints.

It is not necessary that it be Day 4, it could be any Day following the Main Time Day up to
Day 48. If you wanted to create flights starting one day, and have more flights the next
day, it will be no problem if you follow the rules presented in this Tutorial.




The Rules in Action:
Why would you want to make TE’s in this manner? Well, for one, you could create your
own mini campaigns. Make as many flights as you want over several days. You will, of
course, have a problem with moving Units, as they begin to move when you start your
mission. Initially making them stationary, could be a workaround for this. Then - when you
are in the UI and running the mission, you could then click on the Unit, and have it begin to
move toward its Objective. However, you could only do this for the Team you have joined.
So, it does have limitations.

Another use is to create TE’s that have the Moon in a certain phase or position as your
flight progresses. To do this you will need to refer to the Appendix first presented in the FF
Weather Section. For your convenience, it is reproduced below.

The Appendix shows the time each day that the moon is first visible. For example - on
Day 1, the moon begins to rise at a heading of 90 degrees at 03:01:00. On Day 6, the
moon is first seen at the Sunset time of 19:03:10; at a heading of 291 degrees. It will be at
an Inclination of about 15 degrees above the horizon.

Each time the moon rises it takes roughly 9 hours to travel a 90 degree arc through the sky
to the point the moon will set. So for a rule of thumb use 10 degrees of moon movement
for any hour you create your flight, within the times listed in the Appendix.




Dog’s TE War College                          267       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
For example, we want to create a Flight for the moon to be up about 40-45 degrees East
and be in a Full Moon phase. Looking at the table we see the moon begins to rise at
20:08:20 on Day 20. Adding 4 hours it should be at an Inclination of 40 degrees 4 hours
later or 00:08:20.1 It rises at 125 degrees to the horizon, so - four hours later, it should be
at a heading of about 160 degrees.

So we create a Flight on Day 21…the next day…at 00:08:20 and see how it comes out.




It appears in the photo above that - indeed - the moon is full and is at a heading of approx.
170 degrees; 40 degrees above the horizon…




1
    This is an approximation. You will – of course – need to experiment.

Dog’s TE War College                                        268            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
AppendiX                  Moon Position, Time and Phases


Day            Time       Phase        Compass heading (deg)   Inclination (deg)

1              03:01:00                       90                  0 Rising
2              03:23:10                       83                  0 Rising
3              03:44:10                       76                  0 Rising
4              04:09:50                       69                  0 Rising
5              04:38:20   New                 64                  0 Rising
6     Sunset   19:03:10                       291                 15
7     Sunset   19:04:22                       286                 30
8     Sunset   19:05:25                       279                 45
9     Sunset   19:06:15                       273                 60
10    Sunset   19:07:07                       262                 60
11    Sunset   19:07:12                       248                 70
12    Sunset   19:08:05   1st Qtr             226                 70
13    Sunset   19:08:35                       200                 70
14    Sunset   19:09:38                       176                 70
15    Sunset   19:10:30                       159                 70
16    Sunset   19:10:44                       148                 60
17    Sunset   19:12:00                       139                 45
18    Sunset   19:12:35                       131                 30
19    Sunset   19:12:55                       124                 10
20             20:08:20   Full                125                 0 Rising
21             21:18:00                       127                 0 Rising
22             22:18:00                       125                 0 Rising
23             23:07:00                       122                 0 Rising
24             00:00:01                       130                 15
25             00:00:01                       118                 5
26             00:20:26                       107                 0 Rising
27             00:44:34   Last Qtr            99                  0 Rising
28             01:09:36                       92                  0 Rising
29             01:30:24                       84                  0 Rising
30             01:52:25                       77                  0 Rising
31             02:21:40                       72                  0 Rising
32             02:44:55                       65                  0 Rising
33             03:15:20                       60                  0 Rising
34             03:52:20   New                 57                  0 Rising
35             04:36:30                       55                  0 Rising
36    Sunset   19:20:40                       290                 30
37    Sunset   19:21:00                       282                 45
38    Sunset   19:21:15                       272                 60
39    Sunset   19:22:00                       262                 60
40    Sunset   19:22:05                       246                 70
41    Sunset   19:22:10   1st Qtr             231                 70
42    Sunset   19:22:20                       213                 70
43    Sunset   19:22:22                       194                 70
44    Sunset   19:22:22                       178                 60
45    Sunset   19:22:22                       163                 50
46    Sunset   19:22:22                       152                 45
47    Sunset   19:22:22                       140                 30
48    Sunset   19:22:22   Full                130                 5




Dog’s TE War College                       269       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Campaigns
FreeFalcon has undergone a fundamental shift in its approach to developing Falcon4.0.
Acknowledging the ‘Dynamic Campaign’ as the core of Falcon4.0, the FreeFalcon
Development Group has shifted focus toward ensuring that – perhaps for the first time
ever – these campaigns are fully functional. The restoration and renovation of the three
CORE Korean campaigns (Iron Fortress; Rolling Fire; Tiger Spirit) will ensure that the
revolutionary VU.v2 engine can begin to deliver at full potential.

For too many years, Falcon4.0 has been a
Ferrari, driven like a golf-cart. The
FreeFalcon Team is now focused on
tuning and unleashing the VU.v2 engine,
and giving the community that which has
been missing for so long: functional
campaigns, which utilize the full potential
of the AI with regards load-out, tasking,
troop movements, and successful
conclusions to campaigns.

What of the Eurowar and Korea2012
theatres? Lessons learned from Korea
are currently being put to use in these
theatres.

There are many talented individuals and groups, who have spent much time in the
development of 3rd Party theatres. Unfortunately, none of these theatres have ever
worked. Indeed – due to years of hacking and modding – no Falcon4.0 theatre currently
works. Thus – the FreeFalcon Team has switched its primary focus to the elimination of
these problems.

Once the three CORE campaigns are in place - and working as Gilman Louie intended –
the road will be open for 3rd Party developers to begin the creation of fully functional
theatres. Already – and in addition to the great successes experienced with the core
Korean campaigns - the FreeFalcon Team is conducting research, development and
testing of an Israeli, Taiwan, and Panamanian theatre. Drawing on the knowledge, tools,
skills, guidance, and cooperation of the FreeFalcon Development Group, 3rd Party
developers will now have free rein to produce working theatres and campaigns. Thus, it is
envisioned that - insofar as community development is concerned - a “European Theatre”
will be one of the first projects to leave the blocks.

So – when were the Campaigns “broken”, and will they work as well as they were originally
intended? “When” they were broken is impossible to say; that they ARE broken is
demonstrable, and without question. Did they work in the 1.08 release? Perhaps. But –
we do not have concrete evidence of that. We do have anecdotal evidence in that many of
the ‘old-timers’ have finished campaigns. However – neither the tools nor the knowledge
existed at that time to objectively determine whether or not the campaigns were working.




                                          271      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
So – after the attention of the FreeFalcon Development Team, will the campaigns function
as well as the original 1.08 release? Most certainly. Will they function better? They most
certainly may.

Either way – it is what every Falcon4.0 pilot has hoped for since 1.08.

Perhaps one way to demonstrate what is being achieved, would be to look at some
parallel situations, from ‘before’ and ‘after’ development. Let’s examine a typical
Tester’s Report, from before and after the FF team’s Campaign Focus.


Before: (Campaign Team - Test Report; submitted - x.3 Cycle)
Mission 4: Seoul AB. Tasking: 2x F-4EK – BAI - north of Songchong.
Loadout: 3xAIM-7, 4xAIM-9, 6xCBU-58 T/O: 1204

Bug Report - jamming pod has wrong model.
Bug Report - CBU-58 has wrong model.

Form up and climb out uneventful. Did a low pass over the armored battalion stalled near
Paechon Bridge. Seems they're in line formation, stopped just short of the bridge. Confirm
no movement in 2D World. Took the flight north. AWACS called bogeys 330 at 60.

Picked up that SA-2 still sitting off the DMZ.
Bug Report - wingman 'disappeared' enroute.

Got SA-2 launch. Broke down into it.
Bug Report - SA-2 missile has wrong model.

Checked friendly view.
Bug Report - AH-64 weapons have wrong model.

Went to CCIP to drop on SA-2 site.
Bug Report - CTD cycling through ground radar modes. Crashlog posted.


After: (Campaign Team - Test Report; submitted - x.3 Cycle)
Mission 6: Seoul AB. Tasking: 4x F-4EK – BAI - north of Songchong.
Loadout: 3xAIM-7, 4xAIM-9, 6xCBU-58 T/O: 1350

Checked 2D planning map before takeoff. Armored units across Paechon Bridge and
moving on Songchong! Moved SPt_ 3 west of friendlies approx. 10nm to deconflict.

Form up normal. Picked up SA-2 near DMZ. Wingman engaged with CBUs for a kill.
Ordered rejoin. At SPt_3, picked up flak and enemy GVs on road. Ordered weapons free.
Flight cycled through the target twice. Dropped in CCIP single pass on column.

RTB: 1440.
Result: Success. Me: 4xGround kills, Wing: 6xGround kills, -3: 2xGround kills, -4: no kills.

Bug Report - no bugs noted.




                                          272        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
It may be difficult to fully appreciate the ramifications by simply reading a Tester’s Report.
Toonces now takes the above reports, and presents them in a way, which more accurately
reflects the view from the Virtual Pilot, immersed in the simulation


Before:            Tiger Spirit 160th Armored Battalion, Paechon Bridge, North Korea

Major Smith knew it was going to be a long day.

He looked down, reading his orders from Commander Vu2 again: “Immediately deploy forces to
attack and capture Songchong junction. Secure objective and advance to Haeju. Expect enemy
ground forces in the vicinity of Haeju Factory. Reserves are available. Air support will be provided.
–Vu2 sends.”

Smith looked up and surveyed his forces. They had deployed from their positions south of the DMZ
two days before. And everything seemed to be going so well. And…now everything seemed to be
going so wrong.

It started simply enough. The ‘Norks’ got frisky, crossed the DMZ in force, and began the Korean
War where it left off 50 years before. The initial assault was hastily beaten back and the combined
US and ROK forces rapidly progressed from their peacetime bivouacs across the DMZ and into
North Korea. Smith’s own battalion, the 160th, progressed unopposed from the woods north of
Seoul’s suburbs, moving through the last friendly junctions enroute to Haeju. But, then... something
extraordinary occurred.

Two days out of Seoul, deployed into line formation, the 160th approached the Paechon Bridge.
Seeing it in the distance through his binoculars, it appeared undefended and intact. Inwardly, he
sighed in relief. He had secretly worried that the crossing would be heavily opposed, choking the
rapid advance towards Haeju, and from there- Pyongyang.

As the battalion approached, though, Smith saw the lead vehicles stop. Soon the entire battalion
stopped, yards from the bridge onramp.

WTF?

Smith dismounted from his APC and ran to the head vehicle. A bewildered Sergeant looked from
the hatch of his M1A1, eyes wide and uncomprehending.

“Sergeant, what’s the hold up? WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON?”

“I’m not sure, sir…,” Sergeant Wilson replied. “Everything was going fine…and then we just…
stopped…”

“What do you mean you just stopped?!” the Major exclaimed.

“Just that, sir. We just stopped!”

“Well, did you check your fuel? Did you check your supply?”

“Yes sir.” Wilson replied. “Checked the fuel and supply - everything’s normal. Checked the
battalion's morale - normal. Checked our posture - still ‘capture Haeju’. I just don’t understand
what’s going on. We can’t move forward. We’ve just stopped!”




                                             273          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Smith took a deep breath, his lungs expanding as he prepared to unleash a tirade onto the hapless
Sergeant. Just as he prepared to unload, the scream of a pair of Phantoms caught their attention, the
growl of their afterburners drowning out all conversation or even conscious thought. He looked up,
thought he could see the pilot looking down at him…

***

Rooster Flight, Paechon Bridge, North Korea

Lieutenant Cho returned his gaze back to his instruments, his practiced eye taking in heading,
altitude, airspeed, and a handful of other significant data in an instant. He keyed his radio:
“Those tankers look pissed! Wonder what the hold-up is at the bridge? We’re never going to get to
Pyongyang if those chumps are taking smoke breaks every 10 miles…”
“Yup,” replied his wingman, Lt. Lee.

Cho looked over at his wingman, another practiced gesture. His eyes moved to the weapons
hanging under Lee’s jet. AIM-7s...? Check. AIM-9s...? Check. But - it was the air to ground
ordnance that had him bewildered. Typically - on a BAI mission - they’d carry some cluster bombs;
maybe some Mk-82s. On this mission though…well - they were carrying a pair of jeeps on the
outboard pylons, and what looked like a piece of fence, or something-of-the-sort, on the centerline.
WTF? Well, Cho had been around the block long enough to know better than to question orders, but
even he had to admit to himself that this was the most unusual loadout he’d ever seen. Still…orders
were orders.

“Picking up some activity on the RWR, Cho,” Lee hollered out.
Cho looked right, saw the ‘2’ symbol for an SA-2 on his warning receiver.
“Roger, keep your eyes open.”

Cho looked left, then right again, unconsciously checking his wingman’s six.
As he looked over, Lee just… disappeared...!
“What the fu…?!” Cho exclaimed.
One second Lee was there… then he just… wasn’t. No jet; no smoke; no Lee.

A rattling, blaring sound in his helmet snapped his attention back to the cockpit in time to see the
launch warning going off.

“Shit!”

He looked down and right, saw the launch plume on the ground arcing up towards his Phantom. He
hit the chaff button three times, rolled inverted and pulled hard into the upcoming… centerline fuel
tank...?!?

“What in the hell is going on today?!”

The fuel tank passed harmlessly over his canopy, detonating safely behind his rapidly descending
jet. He rolled wings level just above the trees, saw the flash of an Apache flight passing to his left,
Kilo class submarines slung under their stubby wings…

Cho felt woozy. Nothing made sense!




                                               274         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
AFTER:
***
160th Armored Battalion, Paechon Bridge, North Korea

“Sergeant Wilson! Get these friggin' tanks moving RIGHT NOW or I am going to stick my boot so
far up your ass, you’ll be…”

Suddenly, mid-sentence, just before the punchline to end all punchlines, Wilson’s tank lurched
forward with a start.

“YES! GO, GO, GO!!!” Smith shouted.

His battalion rapidly began passing in formation, and moving over the Paechon Bridge. As his APC
passed, Smith hopped up and into his vehicle. He checked his netted tactical display. All along the
FLOT, vehicles were rapidly advancing into North Korea, capturing objectives all over the place.
Songchong lay just beyond the bridge, visible on the horizon.

The familiar growl of a lone Phantom brought his gaze upwards briefly, as the jet roared forward
towards the FLOT…
***
Rooster Flight, Paechon Bridge, North Korea

“Cho, where are you?”
“Lee?! Where’d you come from?”
“I… I don’t know! But I’ve got an SA-2 on my right, two miles!”
“Hit it! Drop on it!” Cho yelled into his oxygen mask.
“Roger. I’m on it.”

Lee rolled the jet ninety degrees right, saw the missiles sitting on their launchers. He selected
Master Arm ‘on’, put the pipper on the target, pickled a pair of bombs onto the closest launcher and
trailer. He pulled off, dropping chaff; glanced over his shoulder, saw the secondarys.

“HELLFIRE!”

Suddenly, a pair of Apaches popped up over the ridgeline, Hellfire missiles popping off their wings
and into the air defense battalion near the SA-2 site.
“YES!” Lee shouted.
Lee formed back up on Cho, pulled into tight echelon right formation.
Cho looked Lee over, saw the remaining CBU-58’s under Lee’s jet.

Cho thought back to the night before…they called it an ‘Irish Car Bomb’. Friggin' thing tasted just
like a milkshake; so smooth; so tasty; and, those two hotties at the end of the bar, all those rounds…

“Oh man…was that it…?” Cho muttered to himself.
“What was that lead?” Lee asked.
“Nothing.” Cho replied. Let’s get back into the war!

                                                                        Toonces


                                             275          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Core Korea Campaigns:
Featuring a close to Real Life Order Of Battle (OOB) for ALL Air Forces.
Featuring many new aircraft , some NEVER BEFORE seen in a campaign.

Example aircraft, include:

US: F-117A, F-16DG, B-2A, RC-135W, AC-130, KC-130, KA-6D, C-2, CH-46
ROKAF: F-5A, RF-4C, CN-235, P-3, Lynx, Ka-27



The Ground War has been heavily modified and updated, and features improvements to
Air Defense placement, and more balance and realism in the placement of ground units.

The “time-frame” of the three scenarios has been pushed forward to allow the deployment
of modern aircraft and ordnance, that did not figure into the original Microprose vision.
The basic theme of each scenario is – however – true to the original.


Tiger Spirit      (2001-2005) Easy Challenge Level

North Korea is weakened from isolationist policies, and years of economic decay. It makes
a swift and sudden – yet poorly-planned – attack on South Korea. The attack is quickly
repulsed, and the DPRK forces are driven back to the North. The combined allied forces,
however, decide to CONTINUE their push north; thus depriving the DPRK a chance to
reorganize, and try again. Defense becomes offense, in a proactive push North.



Rolling Fire        (2001-2005) Medium Challenge Level

Due to a failing economy, and no hope of diplomatic progress with the outside world, North
Korea deploys it’s forces to a battle-ready state. With a million-man army massed on the
border, tensions begin to bubble over. With both sides of the conflict having had time to
prepare, forces are evenly matched, as war breaks out in Korea.



Iron Fortress         (2001-2005) Advanced Challenge Level

North Korea makes a bold and lightning strike into South Korea. The surprise attack
unbalances the South, and the allies are soon overwhelmed; forced south, and pushed
into a defensive posture. It is only a matter of days until the DPRK pushes through the
Pusan perimeter. It is a desperate situation, and the allied forces will need to hold the line,
and slow the DPRK onslaught.




                                          276         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Challenge Settings in Campaigns


                                       Cadet

                                     CHOICE

                                     CHOICE




                                                                           Air Forces
                                                                          Naval Forces
                                                                          Air Defences
Leave all Sliders and Settings as they appear by “DEFAULT”.              Ground Forces

Campaigns have already been optimised using these extant settings.

A more experienced Falcon Pilot, who is finding a lack of challenge, may wish to experiment
with the PILOT skill and ADA Skill (only).

Due to development, and modifications based upon that development, the most realistic
Campaign Experience is based upon the DEFAULT settings.

(As shown above.)

It is essential to performance that you do not touch these settings.




                                               277         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
       Priority Sliders


Begin with all sliders in
the “DEFAULT”
position.

Check the “Set by HQ”
box.




   Adjusting these sliders IS
   - in fact - conducive to a
   successful campaign.
   However, incorrect
   adjustments may
   adversely affect game
   performance, and break
   the FreeFalcon5 ATO.

   Do not adjust without
   guidance from the
   FreeFalcon Forums.



                                278   F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Developer Campaign Notes
In a nutshell, FreeFalcon5 now features the most realistic DataBase and Load-out
DataBase, that have ever existed in a non-classified Flight Simulator.

And – for the first time – the Campaigns WORK.

Be advised – this is still a Work In Progress. But – it DOES progress.

You’ll notice working Lines-of-Sight. You’ll notice Ground Troops which actually MOVE,
and achieve objectives. ATO which generates appropriate weapons and support.

Are there still problems? Yes, there are.

But, there is no other version which does – or ever has – offered the degree of functionality
now evident in the FreeFalcon Campaigns.

You may notice that some ordnance is no longer tasked to some A/C
You may notice that some A/C is not tasked with the type of mission you want or expect.

You should know that – for the first time in Falcon Development – the FreeFalcon Group
has identified some of the fundamental ATO problems inherent in every other version of
Falcon; past and present.

There is nothing “random” in these developments. If you are not seeing choices you have
previously “enjoyed”, it is because your previous “enjoyment” was heavily bugged.

What has been changed, and what has been discovered about the limitations of certain
data and code? This is something which may be discussed at some time in the future.
For now, we are happy to have the End-User enjoy the End-product. What has been done,
and what continues to be done, is currently in the domain of our Coding and Data
Development Teams.

Now – with a FreeFalcon installation – the Virtual Pilot finally has the opportunity to
complete a campaign; Air Forces acting in tandem with ground forces. Terrain meshes
allowing troop activity and movement; SAMs reflecting real-life threat levels; Strategy and
Tactics more closely aligned with Real World experience.

We hope you enjoy the results. Our testers have; our Team has.

We look forward to future releases, in which the issues which are still evident continue to
be addressed.

Enjoy.


“...amazingly diverse action going on in this campaign. The F4 pilot who knows his stuff will relish
this like never before. I am happier than a pig in shit!” - cptmtge




                                             279         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Campaign Tips ’n’ Hints                              (with Tom)

Before you enter the campaign UI, make a decision about the kind of war scenario you
wish to participate in. Would you prefer to fly for the Red, or the Blue side? What aircraft
would you like to experience? What kinds of missions to concentrate on?

By choosing airbases and squadrons in different scenarios, you access different kinds of
aircraft; different roles, and different focus.

The F-16CJ – for example - will have a primary air-to-ground role; SEAD or SEAD Escort
missions, in addition to other mission types such as Sweeps or Escorts.
A-10s – naturally - will fly a lot of CAS, or On-Call CAS missions.
F-15Cs - on the other hand – are tasked solely with Air-to-Air missions.

Having a huge number of flyable aircraft in FF5’s three Core Korean campaigns provides a
variety of mission allocations, with subsequent varying campaign experiences.
Furthermore, the Harriers in the Iron Fortress campaign operate from a carrier, which
makes these flights a very unique, and enjoyable experience.

How to LEARN to fly a non-F-16 aircraft...? Check out the Flight Companion, in your
_the_MANUAL/Flight Manuals Folder. It has everything you need to get started in your
chosen jet. It even has a manual for the new F-16A ‘Pit.

CAMPAIGN CHOICES

Tiger Spirit: The initial advantage favours the Allied Forces; having them already
positioned within DPRK territory.

Rolling Fire: Generally speaking, the initial state between ROK/Allied forces and the
DPRK units is relatively balanced.

Iron Fortress: As opposed to Tiger Spirit, the opposite situation is apparent. The DPRK
forces have occupied a large sector of South Korea. The allied military machine is forced
onto the defensive. But they have a clear technological advantage over North Korea,
which makes this campaign accessible.

Once you have made your decision and enter a specific campaign, you should leave your
sliders as set by default (see the Section above). The campaigns have been optimized for
these settings, and any ‘tweaking’ may have adverse consequences, or – indeed – render
the campaign fundamentally inoperative.

Now that you have chosen a campaign, entered the fray, and have a Frag Order listing all
available flights (over the next few hours), from which to choose, it is time to move on to
some more general tips, before you take off into the wild blue virtual yonder.

Before starting the mission chosen from the Frag Order, it is important that you always
obtain a good overview of the situation,. A Frag is the "fragment" of the "Air Tasking Order"
(or ATO), which plans and structures all flights during the campaign.




                                          280        F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
For a relaxed briefing time, you might want to stop the campaign clock in the upper right
corner of the schedule UI. The "Briefing" screen - accessed via a button at the bottom of
the UI - provides essential information, on the kind of flight awaiting you in the 3D world.

Check which packages belong to your flight; how many wingmen you have; and, whether
you have an element. Also check what action is required for each waypoint; station times;
which STP is the attack waypoint; and, whether there are more than one set of pre-
planned attack coordinates.

If targets are tasked, check out which ones are tasked. Take notes if necessary.
In Real Life, they do...! Also – make sure you note the TACAN information for your strip;
your alternate, and other strips in the area. Makes it easy to dial in TACAN, should you
find yourself unable to make it to your field. Even on a standard RTB, your radio will not
always be tuned to the correct TACAN station.

That covers the “text” part of the briefing. It may be even more important to check the UI
Map, to SEE where the action is taking place, and what the ground beneath your planned
flight route will look like. In the Frag list, left click on your chosen flight and take some time
to identify important waypoints. The ones marked with a triangle are the ones indicating a
special task for the waypoint like "attack target" or "protect package from enemy fighters".
A last word on the Frag order: You can prioritize flights according to their importance.

Be sure to make an informed decision on your chosen engagement. A Deep Strike into
SAM valleys without SEAD Escort might be a bad idea...! But – ultimately – it’s your
choice. Every decision you make will have a dynamic effect on the entire war.

Furthermore, you should right click on the map. This will open a menu with various
options as to what is “visible” on the map. Check which item-types, you wish to have
shown on the UI map. "Fighters" is a must, as you’ll want to know which friendly or enemy
fighters you will be encountering in the 3D world. Remember, not ALL aircraft are
guaranteed to be showing on the UI Map. “Fog of War” is an issue, and Map-Intel
changes from minute to minute.

The more info, the better to maintain a good situational overview.

"Packages" will give you the option to right-click (hit: Status) on each package symbol in
the map that you want to investigate further.

You might also want to view some of the "Installations". "Infrastructure", may be an
important feature to check, as units may often be found choked at bridge crossings. This
may either present targets of opportunity, or elicit caution from MANPADS. Under
"Ground Units", you should mark "Battalions", and check what kind of troops you’ll be
flying over.

An extremely important viewing option is the "Threat Circles". It is crucial for mission
success to know which zones provide SAM danger during ingress and egress, or which
areas must be avoided on station. If possible, adjust flight paths to stay out of the danger
zones...! Note the LINE-OF-SIGHT blockages caused by elevated terrain. By noting
“High Altitude” and “Low Altitude” threats, it is also possible to adjust altitude accordingly,
in the 3D world.




                                            281         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Be sure to check the "High Altitude" threat circles option if you plan to fly high. If you are
planning a N.O.E. ingress/egress, the "Low Altitude" option will help your situational
awareness, as you try to avoid those SAMS which can be defeated by extremely low flight
envelopes. Be aware that MANPADS will not show “threat circles” on the Map.

A further, easily accessible reference is the ATO. This acronym stands for “Air Tasking
Order”. Once clicked upon, this feature provides information on what aircraft, and how
many aircraft, your package or flight consists of.

Again, it is crucial for mission success to have a good and thorough overview, prior to
pushing the "Takeoff" button.

If you are concerned about specific ground units blocking the ingress, use the "Recon"
function of the schedule map (right-click on any chosen object, to find that option). You can
– for example - see which vehicles an AAA unit is composed of. Another very useful way
of getting further intel is to ‘right click’ on a battalion's symbol, and check the "Status" to
determine whether this unit is set to "reserve" posture; to "defend"; to "capture", etc.
Left clicking shows its path to the assigned objective.


Munitions & the Loadout Screen:
Do not change your given loadout unless you feel it is absolutely necessary.
It may have an adverse effect upon the campaign engine.


Flying in the 3D World:
First: The flight route, the "danger zones", your overall goal and the sortie's goal should
affect your tactics regarding altitude, the use of radar and jammers, flight formation and
weapon's deployment.

Regarding weapon's deployment: It is a good idea to spend all of the ordnance, both AA
and AG, on targets. For example - if you just performed an OCA Strike, and have some
Slammers left, ask AWACS to vector you to a bogey on your egress route. This is an
opportunity to score some extra points. If you succeed in both, Air to Air and Air to Ground,
you are almost assured of an excellent rating (if your package didn't fubar) or - even better
- a medal for your simulated egos and logbooks.

If you are concerned about your wingmen getting shot down - guide them to an alternate
base or your home-base; hot-pit refuel, and have some extra fun...!

Regarding SAMs: When flying through a high-threat environment, it can be very helpful to
order the wingmen to override ("radar to standby") their radars and activate the jammers.
Also - stay as high as possible. This way you can avoid manpads and a number of SAMs.

On the other hand, if you fly through SAM-2 belts, it might save your virtual butts to hit the
deck and stay low; very low...!

Beware of hills and fly as fast as possible, without burning all of your fuel.




                                           282         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
In FreeFalcon, manpads (SA-7, SA-8, SA-13 etc.) pose a threat up to altitudes as high as
10,000 – 12,000ft...! So - if you want to drop CBUs on a dangerous enemy ground
battalion - stay above 15,000ft and vector in a loss of altitude whilst pickling bombs...!

When you go for an Air to Air fight, use your radar only when you need it (AWACS can
give you valuable targeting information, and keep you advised of the general “picture”).
Avoid jamming whilst in close range (< 30 Nm) to enemy fighters. They may be equipped
with "Home On Jam" functionality (e.g. Mig-29, SU-27). Almost all modern fighters have
this feature, meaning their Air-Air missiles can lock onto your jamming signal.

Choose your countermeasures according to the threats you are facing. A jammer is
effective against radar guided SAMs, but is modeled within certain limitations in
FreeFalcon5. Try to bring an incoming missile onto your beam (3 / 9 'o clock position) or
outrun it in the opposite direction with full burners. Change altitude and heading whilst
egressing. Chaff works most effectively against radar homing missiles; flares are effective
against heat seeking missiles, and manpads.

Remember - AWACS is your friend. Call regularly for updates, and information; to
increase your overall situational awareness. AWACS is a good way to avoid the use of
“labels”, which are both unrealistic, and can kill immersion.

Most importantly: Know your aircraft; know its flight model; know its physical behavior
within different flight envelopes. Know your weapons, and which targets they are most,
(and least) effective against. Be aware that this simulation provides you with a huge
number of options to enjoy, plan, and win a fight; enough realism to ensure you risk loss,
through either bad luck, bad planning, or bad moves.

Regarding wingmen:
Use them effectively. They may be dumb at times, but they CAN be very effective when
properly ordered and organized. Before you command them to attack a ground target,
make sure that you have “identified” the target, and are in the correct radar and weapons
mode. To have them correctly identify the target, you can designate (“lock”) that target.
You can also place your radar cursors over the target, or simply “padlock” the target, prior
to giving the “Attack my target” command. By doing this before ordering each wingie, you
may split targets between your wingman and the elements.

If they won't attack, or if they reply "Unable", order them to rejoin formation and repeat the
command. Switch waypoints, if necessary.

If you fly an On-Call CAS mission, contact AWACS to check in before ordering the
wingmen to attack. This has worked flawlessly with A-10s, during campaign testing.

Post-mission, the “Debrief” can be enlightening, with regards target hit ratios, and possible
pilot errors. You may even receive a promotion or medal...! Also – after reading the
debrief, and returning to the UI - remember to save the campaign.

Good Luck!!




                                                            Tom
                                          283         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
 BASIC Air Combat Maneuvers
 with derStef


Because air combat involves dynamic movement in three dimensions, one could conclude
that it is an infinitely variable maneuver/counter-maneuver process. But such in not the
case. A fighter pilot has only a limited number of options with which to meet a given
situation. Which one he uses will be dictated more by the relative positions and energy
states of himself and his opponent than by any potential technical advantages that his
aircraft may possess. He will strive to deny his adversary the initiative, knowing that air
combats are lost more often than they are won.

The pilot who holds the initiative can push his opponent around the sky, keeping him under
constant pressure. The longer the pressure continues, the greater the stress on the
defending pilot becomes as his life is threatened. Stress breeds mistakes and the first
error may well prove fatal. Even if the defending pilot makes no errors he is likely to be
forced into a series of energy-dissipating maneuvers that deplete his maneuver capability,
and render him ever less capable of defending himself.

The maneuver phase proper generally begins when a pilot realizes that he is about to
come - or already is - under attack. His first priority is survival; turning the tables is
secondary at this stage. The opening moves are thus defensive, with the attacker
conforming predictably to the defender's movements. Each maneuver has its counter,
however, it is the precision and timing of a maneuver which is important; the ability to out-
fly an opponent. The most advanced fighter in the world is only as good as its pilot.
If, however, the defending aircraft can achieve an early sighting the pilot should be able to
maneuver using normal turns to prevent the attacker from positioning in the lethal or
vulnerability cones.

Having negated the attack, the defender should either disengage (for instance, on an
attack sortie the primary aim must be to complete the bombing mission) or - alternatively -
continue maneuvering into an attacking position.

There are both Offensive & Defensive basic air combat manuevers. These include:


              the   Break
              the   Scissors
              the   High-G Barrel Roll
              the   Jink
              the   Spiral Dive
              the   Vertical Rolling Scissors
              the   Split S
              the   High Speed Yoyo
              the   Lag Pursuit
              the   Low Speed Yoyo
              the   Barrel Roll Attack
              the   Vertical Reverse
              the   Immelmann



     Tactics                      408            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
The Break.
This is used when an attacker is first seen, or is already in the cone of vulnerability. Its
purpose is twofold: to spoil the attacker's aim and to force him to overshoot. The break is
always made towards the direction of attack. This generates "angle-off" as quickly as
possible which makes the defender a difficult target. The attacker may be able to cut inside
the turn but he is forced to pull lead. To do this he must tighten his turn, which increases
his angle of attack. It is difficult for him to pull his nose around at high angles of attack to
achieve a firing solution. The defender should also alter his plane-of-flight to make himself
a more difficult target.

Two forms of break are possible. Depending on the circumstances of the attack. the
defender can use a maximum-rate sustained turn in which he does not lose speed, or the
hardest possible turn in which he almost certainly does. The speed loss attendant on the
turn aids his chances of forcing the attacker to overshoot, as does the smaller radius of the
turn.




                                                                                Defender turns
                                                                                sharply into the
                                                                                attack.




Attacker is about to
achieve Firing
Position.




If the break succeeds in forcing the attacker to overshoot, the Scissors may follow…


     Tactics                        409            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                      Scissors




This is a series of turn reversals preformed with the object of forcing the overshooting
attacker out in front to a position of disadvantage. The initial turn is reversed when the
attacker has definitely overshot and has drifted sufficiently wide as to prevent him from
pulling back into the cone of vulnerability when the defender reverses. Timing the
reversals is absolutely critical. The basic rule is that if the attacker is overshooting fast,
reverse early, but if he is drifting slowly wide, take time and make sure.

Full power is used throughout the scissors but with the nose trimmed high to reduce the
forward velocity vector. Airbrakes can be used to force the flythrough but if they are used
too early they will advertise the defender’s intentions. The scissors may turn into a
stalemate with neither side gaining the advantage. The stalemate can be broken by one
fighter rolling inverted when passing through the adversary's six o'clock and diving away to
gain speed before pulling back up, preferably into the sun by surprise.

Scissoring for more than a couple of reversals are not recommended against an opponent
who is able to turn faster and/or tighter and it should not be attempted if there is more than
one attacker, either.

Fighter pilots recommend that unless the advantage is gained after three reversals, the
pilot should, aiming to pass head-on the attacker, since this would put him at a
disadvantage in having to turn back toward the defender as he runs out.




     Tactics                         410            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                                                                     Breaking a “Stalemate”
                                                                     in Scissors…




               The Forward Velocity Vector




In the scissors, both fighters are trying to reduce their forward velocity vector, which is their
speed along a straight line around which they are both reversing. The winner will be the
fighter with the slowest forward velocity as he will finish up astern of his opponent.




     Tactics                        411            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                              The High - G Barrel




This maneuver is used against an attacker closing fast from astern. It starts with a break,
then a roll in the direction of the break. The fact that it is a high-g maneuver means that
quite a lot of speed is lost - up to 100 knots in some cases, particularly if performed "over
the top."

If the attacker is closing fast and is caught by surprise he may easily fly through and end
up in front, the positions reversed. If he attempts to follow the barrel roll, he will probably
end up high and wide of the defender who can then turn in towards him, forcing him down
and in front. But – tragic outcomes for the defender who attempts a barrel roll in front of a
slowly closing attacker, who will follow him through the maneuver, ending on his tail within
easy gun range. His only recourse in this event is to jink.

The High-G Barrel Roll is a difficult maneuver to execute successfully, and is - in fact -
easy for the attacker to counter. It will only work if the attacker has been led into (or is in) a
high angle-off, high overtake situation.




     Tactics                         412            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Jinking
This is a defensive ploy against an attacker who is sitting on the defender's tail within gun
range with little or no overtaking speed. It is a series of random turns, skids, pitch-ups and
yaws to spoil the attacker's aim. While the attacker is able to retain the advantage, the
longer he is forced to concentrate on attaining a shooting position, the more nervous he is
likely to become about what is going on behind him.

Obviously, at this point the defender is in a desperate situation, about to be shot down,
following a break with rapidly decaying airspeed. What is called for is application of full
reheat, max g in one plane for about 3 to 4 seconds, followed by max minus g in another
plane held for 3 to 4 seconds. Speed should have increased by this time. Hopefully, now
out of gun range, the defender can now start jinking , separating them by 30 to 60 degrees
to avoid the missile envelope-or he can turn back in for a front missile attack (if he has
missiles), followed by escape.




Spiral Dive
When all other maneuvers fail, the spiral
dive is a last-ditch attempt to shake off a
resolute pursuer. This involves
maintaining the highest possible rate of
turn in a dive steep enough to retain
maneuvering airspeed.

If the attacker follows the spiral the
defender should throttle back. This tends
to flatten out the spiral and reduces the
rate at which height is lost. The defender
will slowly lose speed.

As it is extremely difficult for the attacker
to notice early enough that his opponent
has reduced power he may start to
overshoot at this point. If he does, a hard
rolling reversal and pull-up by the
defender will force the attacker out in
front.




     Tactics                         413          F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                                                 The
                                          Vertical Scissors




This is similar to the scissors, but it is carried out in either a steep climb or a dive, and the
reversals are often carried out by executing a complete barrel roll. The ascending vertical
rolling scissors places the fighter with the better zoom-climb (or the higher initial energy
state) at a disadvantage at first. In latter stages, the fighter with the best sustained rate of
climb will have the advantage.

If in a descending vertical rolling scissors the defender finds himself forced below his
adversary, he should attempt to place himself directly beneath his opponent and maneuver
in phase with him. In this position he cannot be seen and can pick his moment to
disengage with a split S.




     Tactics                        414             F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
The Split-S
In this the defender rolls inverted and dives
away vertically, pulling out in a direction
opposite to that of his opponent.



Most defensive maneuvers are designed to
counter an attack coming from astern,
mainly by forcing an attacker to overshoot.
What are the attacker's needs? Much
depends on whether he is planning a
missile or gun attack. A missile attack
should be fast, deadly, and conclusive. But,
as WW I German Chief of Staff von Moltke
observed many years ago: plans rarely
survive contact with the enemy. The fighter
pilot should be prepared for his attack to fail
and know precisely what he will do next,
either enters into a maneuvering combat.



If his attack is form head-on, much will depend on the maneuver potential of the two
opponents. The more maneuverable fighter will have the edge in a turning fight. (The more
maneuverable fighter at this stage is frequently the one traveling slowest rather than the
one most aerodynamically capable.) If this is the attacker he should endeavor to pass wide
of his opponent to give himself turning room. If there is any doubt about relative maneuver
potential he should pass close to deny his adversary turning room, then pull high in the
turn. In either case he should pass down-Sun so that his next change of direction forces
his opponent to look into the dazzle. If after a head-on pass both aircraft pull high a vertical
ascending scissors may result.



A missile attack from astern is normally made at high closing speed. If the attacker must
zoom climb to dissipate his excess speeds if he wishes to continue the fight, although it is
easier and probably safer to disengage at this point. A gun attack should be made with am
overtake speed of about 50 knots (just under 90 feet, 27m per second). This gives time to
track the target in the sight, minimizes the risk of overshooting and retains an energy
advantage for maneuvering combat.




     Tactics                        415            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Staying on the Offensive
Defensive maneuvers place much stress on forcing an attacker to overshoot.

Obviously, then – it is important to avoid overshooting…! So - how is it done?

An overshoot is caused by one of two factors. The first is an excessively large angle
subtended between the fuselages of the respective aircraft. The second is excessive
closing speed. This is difficult for the attacker to spot until he is fairly close in. Either way
the attacker is facing an overshoot scenario.

His first remedy…




                                           The High-speed Yoyo.




When the attacker realizes that he is unable to stay on the inside on the defender's turn,
he relaxes his angle of bank a little, then pulls high. As he comes over the top he is
inverted, looking down at his opponent through the top of his canopy. His speed falls due
to the climb, and this diminishes his radius of turn. The 1g of gravity is utilized by turning in
the vertical plane, which reduces the radius of turn still further. The attacker should be well
placed to slide down into a firing position.




     Tactics                         416             F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                                                            Lag Pursuit…




…can be used when the primary cause of overshooting is excess speed.


Basically it consists of maintaining position astern, but outside the turn radius of the
defending fighter. In this manner both speed advantage and initiative are retained; the
attacker matching the defender's rate of turn in degrees per second, whilst remaining
concealed in the blind spot beneath the defender's tail.

Lag pursuit is best countered by tightening the turn into a spiral dive. The temptation is to
reverse and commence scissoring, but this is a good way to die if the attacker is skilled.




     Tactics                       417            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
The Low-Speed Yo-yo




Another combat situation which can arise is a stalemate in either a tail chase or turning
match. To break the stalemate, a low-speed yoyo is used. This is based on the age-old
concept of trading height for speed. If the pursuer finds that he is unable to close to within
shooting range in straight flight, he can gain extra speed in a shallow dive. This will allow
him to close the horizontal distance and takes him into his opponent's blind spot at six
o'clock low. When a suitable position and overtaking speed can be attained, the pursuer
can pull up and attack. The counter? Keep a good lookout behind!

More often, the low-speed yoyo is used to break a stalemate in a turning fight. The
attacker drops his nose to the inside of the turn, then cuts low across the circle before
pulling up towards his opponent's six o'clock. The gain is often marginal, but repeating the
process nibbles off a few degrees of angle each time, due to maneuvering in the vertical
plane. The pull-up should be started when a position of about 30 degrees angle-off is
reached. It is important that the angle of cut-off is correct or the attacker will arrive in a fly-
through situation with too much angle-off as he approaches the target. If this happens then
he must Endeavour to pull up into a high-speed yoyo.

Defense against the low-speed yoyo takes two forms. The first is to copy the maneuver
while remaining in phase with the attacker. This maintains the stalemate. The second
counter is more positive, the defending turn into his opponent.
If the attacking pilot has tried to lead the defender by too much or dived too low by being
greedy, the defender can also pull up and barrel down onto the attacker.




     Tactics                         418            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
              The Barrel Roll Attack




This maneuver differs from the defensive high-g barrel roll in that a great loss of speed to
force an attacking fighter to overshoot is not necessary. The g forces can therefore often
be quite small. Closely resembling the rollaway, the barrel roll attack is used to alter the
angel of approach to the defender without losing a lot of speed. It is used when the
attacker becomes aware that he is going to overshoot turning target. He rolls away the
wings level, pulling the nose hard up, and then rolls away from the direction of turn. This
three-dimensional maneuver is completed by sliding in astern of the target.

The counter to a well executed barrel roll attack is for the defender to dive away and
increase speed. While doing this he must keep a sharp lookout for a missile attack and be
ready to evade it. If he reverses his turn, he will probably set himself up for a gun attack.




     Tactics                       419            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                   The Vertical Reverse




The vertical reverse can be used when an attack or maneuver is completed with a vertical
climb. The aircraft continues straight up until it loses momentum. It is then thrown around
very sharply into a steep dive, gaining speed as it goes.

This maneuver can be used at the top of a vertical ascending scissors either to disengage
or to offer the pursuer a little head-on discouragement, but is mostly used to reposition for
a further attack. Very few modern fighters are controllable at such low speeds.

The vertical reverse is only for the fighter with exceptional low-speed handling. It is used at
the end of a vertical climb when all speed has been bled off, the aircraft falling sharply into
a dive.




     Tactics                       420            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                              The Immelmann




The Immelmann is essentially a maneuver for repositioning. Not to be confused with its
WWI namesake, its main value lies in enabling the fighter to reposition at any angle with
almost no lateral displacement.

A pair working as a team is much more effective than two fighters working individually.
They guard each other's visual blind spots and hunt as a coordinated unit. The wide
spacing is dictated by two factors: the long reach of contemporary weaponry, and the large
amounts of sky needed for maneuver at high subsonic or transonic speeds.

Back in 1916 the original Immelmann turn was more akin to the vertical reverse than its
present-day counterpart. The modern version of the Immelmann is a vertical climb or half
loop, possibly aileron-turning during the climb, then rolling out into level flight at the top.

Its main value lies in using the vertical plane to change the direction of flight in the smallest
possible horizontal space. Horizontal turns at normal fighting speeds take up a lot of room
laterally. Using the vertical plane enables the fighter to turn square corners in relation to its
position above the ground.

This maneuver makes repositioning for a further attack, or turning to meet a threat, much
easier than would be the case using only the horizontal plane.




     Tactics                        421            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Threat & Missile Evasion
                                                               with Molnibalage
Air to Air Threats:
a. Semi Active Radar Homing missiles (SARH).
   Radar guided missiles, fire control radar is on aircraft.

b. Active Radar Homing Missiles (ARH).
   Radar guided missiles, in end (active) phase missiles use onboard radar.

c. Infra red guided missiles (IR).

d. Internal gun.



        AA-1                      a*           R.530D             a

    AA-2 (R-3Sz)                  c            Mica EM            b

   AA-2-2 (R-13M)                 c            Mica IR            c

                                             R.550 Magic          c
    AA-2C (R-3R)                  a
                                                  II
   AA-3 (R-98TM)                  c             IRIS-T            c

  AA-3R (R-98RM)                  c           ASRAAM              c

    AA-6 (R-40T)                  c              PL-2             c             A-A Missiles
   AA-6R (R-40R)                  c             PL-5C             c

    AA-7 (R-23T)                  c             PL-5E             c

   AA-7R (R-23R)                  c              PL-8             c

     AA-8 (R-60)                  c             PL-12             a

     AA-9 (R-33)                  b**         Pyhton-3/4          c

AA-10A,C (R-27R,ER)               a

                                  c                * IRL this was a beam-riding missile, but this
AA-10B,D (R-27E,ET)
                                                   is not modelled in-game.
    AA-11 (R-73)                  c                As one will never meet this missile in Korea, it
                                                   is of no consequence.
    AA-12 (R-77)                  b

  AIM-9 (all version)             c                ** IRL this is not ARH, but in Falcon is
 Rb-74 = IRL AIM-9L                                modelled to simulate the simultaneous attack
  AIM-7 (all version)             a                capability of MiG-31. Because of its PESA
   Skyflash / Rb-71                                type radar it is able to engage multiple targets
     AIM-54A/C                    B                simultaneously, despite the AA-9 being
                                                   SARH guided.
 AIM-120 (all version)            b
       Rb-99




   Tactics                           422           F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Land or Ship-based Threats:


a. Radar guided surface to air missiles (SAM) systems have to perform STT lock to engage the
   target. In real systems, the more common guidance method is radio-command guided or
   SARH guided missiles. They are modelled the same way in Falcon. One battery has only one
   search and one fire control radar. There are two exceptions. Launchers for SA-11/17 systems
   have onboard fire control radar.

b. Radar guided surface to air missile (SAM) systems do not have to perform STT lock to engage
   the target. IRL these system can engage multiple targets simultaneously. In Falcon this is not
   modelled. If a SAM like this launches a missile, your RWR will only show search. This method
   is the same as TWS mode for aircraft radars.

c. Optical guided SAM      The SA-2/3 has this guidance option in FF. IRL the SA-6 also has this
   option. Their main operational mode is radio command guided or SARH.

d. IR guided SAM        MANPAD and SHORAD systems are typically like this, but some SHORAD
   is radar guided.

e. Anti aircraft gun (AAA)     Radar aiming.

f.   Anti aircraft gun (AAA) Optical aiming.
     Machine guns on vehicles and infantry rifle shots are modelled this way.




       Tactics                        423             F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
      SA-2, (HQ-2)                a, c

          SA-3                    a, c

          SA-4                     a

          SA-5                     a*

          SA-6                     a

      SA-7 (HN-5A)                 d

     SA-8, (SA-N-4)                a

      SA-9 (SA-N-9)                d

SA-10, (S-300MPU), SA-N-6          b

         SA-11                     a **

         SA-12                     a **

         SA-13                     d ***

         SA-14                     d

                                   a
                                                         Land
     SA-15 (HQ-17)
                                                           &
                                   d
         SA-16                                     Ship-Based Missiles
         SA-17                     a **

         SA-18                     d

  SA-19 (2S6 Tunguska)            a, e

         ZSU-57                    f

        ZSU-23-4                   e

          S-60                     e

        KS-12/19                   e

         ZU-23                     f

       Hawk ADS                    a

     Nike – Hercules               a

         Patriot                   b




 Continued on Next Page…




  Tactics                   424            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
          K-SAM                          a

           Mistral                       d

          Stinger                        d

         K-200AD                         f                               Land
                                         b                                 &
           SM-2
                                                                   Ship-Based Missiles
           RIM-7                         a

        K-30 BIHO                        e

           M163                          e

      M54 Chaparral                      d




* Modelling of the SA-5 is not accurate. IRL that system has a combined guidance system. It is
radio command guided, but SARH guided in terminal phase. In the game you can detect the
launch as you do for the SA-2 or SA-3, but in terminal phase, the missile uses onboard radar.
IRL the missile does not have onboard radar, but – with FreeFalcon - this is a good approach to
modelling the combined guidance.

** Because of the radars on these launchers, one battery can engage multiple targets. One needs
to destroy all launchers in one battery to eliminate the threat.


*** The system has IR guided missiles, but radar helps with identifying targets and preparing to
launch. It can happen that a naval SAM system has different capabilities than its land based
version. The engagement zones of older MANPAD systems (e.g. SA-7) are about 1.5 miles in the
horizontal. Max engagement altitude is 6,000 – 7,000 feet, but as the target flies faster and higher,
this effective distance becomes smaller. Newer MANPADs have larger engagement zones. The
SA-14/16, Mistral, Stinger are good up to 2 or 2.5 miles, and up to 10k - 11k feet. SHOARDs are
also effective to about 10k - 12k and up to 2 - 8 miles.

Older missiles are not all-aspect missiles. They can effectively launch at targets from the rear
hemisphere. These are - for example - the AIM-9P, AA-2A, AA-8, SA-7. This is not the whole
story, however. You CAN launch these missiles if the target aspect is 01 L/R, but in this case their
accuracy is lower, they are more vulnerable to flares and lock distance is smaller.

SA-2/3 has an optical guidance mode. This type of launch is neither overly effective nor accurate,
but the pilot will get NO warning on the RWR…!




      Tactics                          425             F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
COUNTERACTIONS
  I.   Kinematic. There are two different ways to defeat the missile this way. These two
       methods can be combined.


Escape from the missile. The kinetic energy (speed) of a missile is ‘drained’ by drag forces. Try
to create a situation where the missile cannot reach you. The basic idea is very simple - put the
incoming threat on your 6 o’clock, and use full afterburner. The key is how you perform the turn,
and your initial speed and altitude. This will be explained later.

This kind of defensive manoeuvre is very effective against SARH guided air to air missiles,
because your RWR system gives you instant information about the launch. The escape manoeuvre
can be combined with hard vertical turns. The key is correct timing. This will be explained in later
examples.

Perform a hard break-turn at the appropriate moment. You force the missile to turn so hard,
that it cannot perform or it simply loses too much kinetic energy. This loss of energy is converted
into loss of speed. Because of this loss of speed, it cannot reach you.

Combining the two. After the launch you turn back and hit after-burner. As the missile
approaches with its kinetic energy ‘drained’, you perform a further break-turn into the missile.




       Tactics                        426             F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
II.   Using the EWS system, thereby defeating the sensors of incoming threats.
      Of course, these actions can be combined with those mentioned above.

      1. ECM - Electronic Jamming. On the KF-16C/D, F-16C/D HAF, F-16I the jammer is
         integrated. On other F-16 types you have to carry an ALQ-131 or ALQ-184 to have this
         capability. The ECM does not cover the whole airspace. Azimuth coverage is
         +/- 60 degrees for both the 12 o’clock and 6 o’ clock direction. The elevation coverage is
         +15 and -30 degrees.

      2. Using chaff & flares. On F-16s and most 4th generation jets, you have EWS
         programs. Some AC and AF do not. One press of the ‘x’ or ‘z’ key sends a release
         command to the dispensers. On some AC one command means multiple decoy
         launches. For example on the F-15, one command means launching two chaffs or two
         flares. On the Su-25, one command will launch four flares. Different kinds of missiles or
         threats will require different countermeasures.

      3. Beaming manoeuvre. This is useful against doppler radars. The main concept is
         shown in the figure below. Put the fire control or search radar to you 3 or 9 o’clock.




         If the radial velocity component is small enough, it is harder to detect the AC with
         Doppler radar. Be careful - not all systems have Doppler radar…! Against more
         advanced systems you have to fly more precisely; keep the radial velocity as close to
         zero (0) as you can.

      4. Flying in ground clutter. SAM systems have MINIMUM engagement ranges and
         altitudes. Simply – fly lower than the effective minimum range of the enemy radar. Of
         course you can combine beaming, flying in ground clutter and using decoys.
         Combination of techniques is a very effective way to defeat SARH missiles.




      Tactics                       427             F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Every aircraft has unique radar cross section (RCS) size. RCS is not constant, it depends on the
aspect. RCS is maximum if the aspect is 01L/R. RCS is minimum if the aspect is 18L/R.

The infra red signal strength is also unique for every aircraft, but it depends on the current RPM.
The Engine cooling time is modelled. Therefore, if you set the RPM from afterburner to 85% mil
power, your IR signal won’t become instantly smaller…! At 85% RPM your ‘IR cross section’ is
about half of the 100% RPM state. Full afterburner means about a 150% larger ‘IR cross section’
than 100% RPM. The flare effectiveness depends on the distance from the missiles. As the missile
reaches more closely, the effectiveness of the flares decrease.

            Note   In Falcon the weather does not affect IR seekers; weather is only eye-candy.




   1. Performing the counteractions

   •    a./ Setting EWS , some examples

Against older MANPADs like SA-7, the following setting is quite effective as a preventive measure
if you do not fly at greater than 90%-95% RPM, and if your speed is above 400-450 kts. You have
enough time to fly outside of the engagement zone of SA-7.

   BQ : 8-10          BI : 0.750             SQ : 1         SI: 1

Against SA-14 you can experiment with two different settings. The first is simple. You have to
increase the qty. and decrease the burst interval. Using this setting means that you have a higher
change to drop enough decoys if a missile incoming, but you can’t see it.

   BQ : 12-15         BI : 0.350             SQ : 1         SI: 1

The other approach is as follows. The flare usage is more intensive for a short time, but for a time
you are completely unprotected. If the missile comes at the right moment you have more
protection, but in the other case...

   BQ : 8             BI : 0.250             SQ : 2         SI: 2

The next setting is good against more advanced IR missiles, like AA-11 (R-73). Of course this is
not a preventive usage, you have to use if you detect a launch.

   BQ : 12 +          BI : 0.150             SQ : 1         SI: 1



For older radar guided missiles the default ’1’ program is not too effective. Many times you waste
too many chaff. Against advanced SAMs increase the BQ.

   BQ : 2-3           BI : 0.250             SQ : 1         SI: 1




       Tactics                        428             F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
   •    b./ Evasive manoeuvres

   There are three main requirements for a successful evasive manoeuvre:

   1. Having the necessary speed and thrust.
   2. The speed of incoming missile have to be appropriate.
   3. The proper timing.

If any requirement is missing, the attempt likely won’t be successful. The main goal of an evasive
manoeuvre is to replace the pre-calculated impact point, thus the missile won’t be able to follow
you after your hard turn. It is important to know that there are situations where trying to defeat a
missile by doing break-turns is impossible.

The following figures show some very basic cases for BVR combat and evasion examples.
The figures are not scaled 100% correctly, and - because of many variables - it is impossible to
draw them all. The figures do show the main concept of missile evasion.



       BLUE          -   Target AC
       RED           -   Attacking AC
       GREEN         -   Missile




The numbers on the figure show where are each object is at the same moment.
The blue colour shows the path the targeted aircraft
The green shows the path of missile,
The red colour shows the path of attacker aircraft.

The dashed line represents the azimuth of a radar that can search and track targets within +/- 45
degrees (but the zone can be tilted).

The cross shows the calculated impact point.



       Tactics                          429           F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
  The example is very simplified; the following must be considered:

       •   The attacker and target are at the same altitude, about 15k -18k feet.
       •   The missile is an AA-10A (R-27R), SARH guided missile.
       •   The Attacker doesn’t manoeuvre.
       •   The Target changes only its heading but not altitude. Its speed is more or less constant.

We can observe the following things from the figure:

   •    At the moment of launch the target is in location 1. If the target does not take any action,
        the missile will hit the target. Obviously this not the result that we want.

   •    In the second case – shorter-dashed line – the target does a long turn. Because the target
        does the turn slowly, the rocket has enough time to follow it by doing only a slight turn with
        low acceleration. The Target is reached, with only the kinetic energy loss being higher.

   •    If the target performs a hard turn, and does it instantly, it will lead to the same result.
        Because the missile is farther to the target, it has enough time and kinetic energy to react.
        We can see that only doing only a hard turn is not enough. The right timing is important.




In the second figure below        We see a good reaction to the SARH attack.
After the launch the target increase its speed and does a hard turn.




       Tactics                         430             F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
The actions in the 2nd figure are effective, as:
The pre-calculated impact point is replaced to a distant point.

The missile has to fly to a more distant point; it has lass kinetic energy before it reaches the
proximity of impact point.

After the hard turn one can do a beaming manoeuvre and also use dispensers.
Also, whilst performing the above, one can move into ground clutter…!


If everything goes well, one can see that one’s counteraction is successful on the RWR. In this
example, let’s assume that it was not successful and you’ve ran out of chaff (or simply don’t want
to use more). At this moment the target is in location “2”. The missile reacts to the turn, by also
turning. At this moment, the target can do another turn and place the missile on its six o’clock.
(This is not shown in the figure.) If you do this it is harder to later achieve an engagement position
on the attacking aircraft.

There is no sense in continuing to beam. It is also a good idea for the target AC to dive to a lower
altitude. It is good because during the dive the target can increase its speed rapidly and the missile
also moves through denser air. It will lose much kinetic energy. When the target AC can no longer
accelerate significantly, the speed already gained in the dive can be converted back to altitude.
Note - at this point, the missile does not have the thrust to effectively follow…!




If the actions to this point have still not been enough to defeat the missile, there is still a final
opportunity available. Now that - due to one’s earlier actions - the missile is likely to be at low
speed, one may try the ’crossing’ manoeuvre.




      Tactics                           431             F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
It is hard to describe this manoeuvre.

One may learn it via the video available at Molnibalage’s Training Video Site:

http://www.freefalcon.com/forum/showthread.php?t=16216



There is - however - one additional thing that should be mentioned about the ’crossing’ manoeuvre.




On the above figure, you can see a theoretical path of a missile.
If an idealized object moves on a circular curve, the acceleration is the following




Aircraft and missiles mostly do not fly on an exact circular curve. The key is the radius of curvature.

You can see on the figure that if a missile is forced to a tighter turn it means greater acceleration.

Missiles have max. G values. If a missile has to do a harder turn than its max. value, it won’t hit it’s
target (in this case - You). Your goal whilst defensive is to create a situation like this.

Note that, the latest generation missile are so high G, that it is quite hard to create a situation in
which they can reach their limits.




      Tactics                            432            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
GORNY’s                    ADVANCED TACTICS SCHOOL
SO - you wanna' be a fighter pilot...?
Stop flying Falcon4.0, and go join the military.

SO - you DON'T wanna' be a fighter pilot...?
Okay - listen up. I got some TACTICS to REIGN in the virtual skies.


Pt. I - AMBUSHED.

Wall of MiGs...! Archer inbound...! Flight of Flankers vectoring to your posit...!

What do you do....?!?!

Dive.


You just go FULL burner, and point your nose STRAIGHT at the ground.
And you just DIVE like a sunnavabitch. STRAIGHT DOWN.
At 1,000 mph straight down, the MiGs are soon gonna’ lose you on radar.
The Flankers are NOT going to want to commit suicide.
By the time your wings get sheared off as you hit mach 5, the archer has been outstripped.

As a defensive bonus, the friction from the air will turn your jet into a molten ball of glowing
metal, blinding anyone within a 10 mile radius.

Can you safely eject....? No.
At 25 G's, you won't be able to move your hands.
Also - you'll be blind, because you no longer have eyes.
Your eyeballs imploded about 5 G's ago.
(You'll probably have a nose-bleed, also. Keep a tissue handy.)

So - you may very well ask - what's the outcome of this…?

Simple.

You've evaded the MiGs; You've evaded the Flankers; You've evaded the Archer.


It's all good.




                                              444
Pt. II - STEALTH APPROACH
Dead of night. Ext. lights are out. Instrument lighting is off. NVG is operational.
You're coming in low, using the terrain to mask your approach.
Target in sight. Suddenly - YOU'RE PAINTED....!!
KLAXON SOUNDS....! SAM inbound....!!!
What do you do....?

Two options here. Both involve diving.

The first option is probably the most straight-forward.
You just go FULL burner, and point your nose STRAIGHT at the ground.
And you just DIVE like a sunnavabitch. STRAIGHT DOWN.
You'll impact the ground within seconds, and the SAM will lose lock.


Well done. SAM evaded.



The 2nd option is a little more tricky, but - from a tactical point of view - far more effective.
You CLIMB as fast as your burners will allow. You just CLIMB like there's no tomorrow....!!
(Actually - as you'll soon discover - there will be no tomorrow)


Then - when the target is somewhere below you, push the jet over, and DIVE...!
You just go FULL burner, and point your nose STRAIGHT at the ground.
And you just DIVE like a sunnavabitch. STRAIGHT DOWN.
IF you have judged altitude correctly, you should impact the target at approx. Mach 6.


OUTCOME              You've evaded the SAM; you've taken out your primary target. 1

It's all good.




1
   For an added touch of Irony, you may want to whip out a Marker-Pen and quickly write a witty little comment on
your HUD. Something like “Special Delivery”, or “This Buds for YOU”. This is often stencilled onto ordnance, but –
in this case – your ordnance will be disintegrating along with the rest of your jet. For a real witty dig, that’s sure to
have the North Koreans laughing into their kimchi, you may want to just draw a quick “Smiley Face” on your visor.




                                                          445
Pt III - ATC Woman
You're a dot. RTB. You're in the pattern.
Suddenly - that ATC chick starts bitching and yabbering about "going around" or summin'.
You've been flying the sim. for 10 years.
Frankly - you've fuckin' had ENOUGH of this bitch.

She's - like - all the worst parts of your wife made real...

What do you do...?

You just go FULL burner, and point your nose STRAIGHT at the Tower.
And you just DIVE like a sunnavabitch. STRAIGHT INTO THE TOWER.


OUTCOME          Bitch gets a steaming cup of STFU.

It's all good.




Pt IV – When NOT to Dive
Probably, the LEAST effective time to dive, is during RAMP Start.

IF you simply MUST dive at this time, try the following:

  i.    Un-strap your harness
  ii.   Pop the canopy (or – if you’re an attention-whore - jettison the canopy)
 iii.   Activate the Parking Brake
 iv.    Stand on your AcesII Ejection Seat
 v.     Dive from the ‘Pit onto the RAMP (it is important that you do this head-first)
 vi.    When you regain consciousness (and assuming you haven’t severed your spinal
        cord), stand up and yell to the Ground Crew: “Did you see me…!? Did you..!?
        Did you see what I did…?!”



OUTCOME          Everybody is really scared of you. They buy you beer.

It’s all good.


                                                                          Ara’

                                               446
Korea theater

Blue Forces winning conditions:
Capture P'Yongyang city, South P'Yongyang city and Wonsan city objectives.


Red Forces winning conditions:
Capture Seoul city objective.


Campaign will end on Day 14.




Blue Forces winning conditions:
Capture P'Yongyang city, South P'Yongyang city and Wonsan city objectives.


Red Forces winning conditions:
Capture Seoul and Pusan city objectives.


Campaign will end on Day 30.




Blue Forces winning conditions:
Capture Seoul and hold Pusan city objectives, or survive the 7th day.


Red Forces winning conditions:
Capture Seoul and Pusan city objectives




   Appendices                        - 455 -         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Korea 2012 theater

Blue Forces winning conditions:
Capture P'Yongyang city, South P'Yongyang city and Wonsan city objectives

Red Forces winning conditions:
Capture West Seoul, Seoul Airbase,
Kangnung city, Kangnung Airbase
objectives.


Campaign will end on Day 30.




Blue Forces winning conditions:
Capture P'Yongyang city, South P'Yongyang city and Wonsan city objectives.

Red Forces winning conditions:
Capture Seoul and Pusan city objectives.


Campaign will end on Day 30.




Blue Forces winning conditions:
Capture P'Yongyang city, South P'Yongyang city and Wonsan city objectives.

Red Forces winning conditions:
Capture Seoul and Pusan city objectives.


Campaign will end on Day 30.




   Appendices                        - 456 -       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
    DEDICATION - for Dave "DewDog2" Wagner



    This FLIGHT MANUAL COMPANION is a W.I.P.


    Not all of the Pit-info contained within is complete.

    Hopefully, this will be done in a future release.

    Or - you could do it, and pass that to me… ☺



    Regardless, I trust that you will find the following information useful.



    Ara’




  CONTENTS PAGE

  The following CONTENTS Page contains Active Links.


  Clicking on the A/C name will take you to that Page.

  Should make your Document navigation a little less stressful.


  Ara’




Flight Manuals                                 F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
T h e        M i G - 2 9      F u l c r u m




2 D         F l i g h t         M a n u a l




Flight Manuals             F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
       1 - Landing gear               1 - Magnetic compass
       2 - Eject                      2 – Mach ASI
       3 – ECM                        3 – Fuel quantity
       4 – Emergency jettison         4 – Altimeter
       5 – Master caution             5 – HSI
       6 – HUD colour                 6 – Altimeter
       7 – HUD brightness             7 – Mach/ASI
       8 – MFD Main menu              8 – Clock
       9 – MFD SubMenu                9 – ADI ball
      10 – NAV mode
      11 – Master arm
      12 – Interior light button
      13 – ILS
      14 – AA Mode
      15 – AG mode
      16 – MFD brightness down
      17 – MFD brightness up




Flight Manuals                     F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
  3D Pit




1. Master Arm                  12. EWS Program 4
2. A/A Mode                    13. Landing Gear Handle
3. A/G Mode                    14. EWS Mode Manual
4. NAV Mode                    15. EWS Mode Semi
5. Emergency Stores Jettison   16. EWS Mode Auto
6. Master Caution              17. ECM Emitter
7. Landing Lights              18. RF Silence
8. Canopy Handle               19. Steerage Autopilot
9. EWS Program 1               20. Attitude/Altitude Autopilot
10. EWS Program 2              21. Autopilot Engage
11. EWS Program 3




Flight Manuals                    F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
1. HUD Brightness         6. RWR Ground Priority
2. HUD Colour             7. RWR Priority
3. Left MFD Touchscreen   8. RWR Search

4. Warning Reset          9. RWR Target Step

5. RWR Hand Off           10. RWR Unknown

0. Pit Lighting




 Flight Manuals              F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
11. Ejection Handle                      16. Anti-Collision Lights
12. Master Power                         17. Steady / Flash
13. Master Fuel                          18. Wings / Tail Lights
14. Left Engine (Both)                   19. Ext Lights Power
15. Right Engine (Both)                  20. ICP + DED (see below)


    NEXT                 1           2                 3               UP
    PREV                 4           5                 6              DOWN
   RESET                 7           8                 9               SEQ

      CLEAR                  ENTER               0                   LIST




Flight Manuals                              F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
  F4 Phantom




     Flight Manual
                                     Original ‘Pit by AEYES (cockpits.nl)

                 Upgraded and Rebuilt by ARAGORN for FreeFalcon (2008)



Flight Manuals                 F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
         HUD Scales            HUD Brightness
                                                                 TWS

                                                AG    AA
MFD GAIN Up/Dn                                                              Canopy Lever




                                                ADI

 Gear       Laser Arm                                      Master Caution
                                     Master Arm                                            AVTR
                                                                                Hook
        RF Switch

                                                                      MAL/IND

                    Left Hardpoints On-Line
                    Right Hardpoints On-Line
                    Centre Hardpoints On-Line
                    Gun On-Line




   Flight Manuals                                     F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                     SHOOT Light     LOCK Light


                    Fuel Low                ALOW Light
                      Light
                                                       Compass
                                                                   Range
Chaff/Flare Count                       MFD                          to         RWR
                                                                   Beacon




                                      ADI                                     Fuel
 Clock                 Speed                         VVI
                          +                        Indicator     L+R   L+R
                    Mach Indicator                               RPM   Fuel
                                        Altitude                       Flow




 Flight Manuals                                   F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                                                          JETTISON




                             Gear Indicator
                                 Panel        Parking Brake
             LEF Indicator




  AVTR
 Indicator




  Warning
   Lights




Flight Manuals                     F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Functional Kneeboard
      Lighting.

                                              HSI                            R+L
                          Launch Warn                                      Eng Temp
                CatI
               CatIII                                        ADI




                                                               COMM 1
                                           R+L                 COMM 2               R+L
                                        Hyd Pressure                                Nozzle



                   Tabs                                Pnuematic
    Kneemap                                             Pressure        CRS + HDG
                                                                          Select
                                 R+L
                              Oil Pressure




Flight Manuals                                      F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
        LE Flaps      Fuel                            Refuel
         Lock        Master                           Door

                                        Engine
                                         Feed
                          Fuel
Flaps                     Flow                                                 Idle Detent
                                                          Alt Flaps




    Flaps
                     AP                          L+R                   Air
                   Override                      Engine               Source                 Oxygen
                                                                                Drag Chute    PSI
                                                 Master                          Deploy

                              Trim AP
                                Disc
                                                       Engine
                                                      Spool-Up




Flight Manuals                                       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
             Cabin
            Pressure
                                       Instrument
                                        Lighting

                          Status
Main                      Lights                    Console           Ext Lighting       Taxi Light
Power                                               Lighting             panel




Generator
 Status                                                  GPS Power
 Lights                                                                              IFF Master

                                   COMMS 2
                                    Volume                           Air Source
               AA/TR
               Selector                        AUX COMM
                                                 Master
                             COMMS 1
                              Volume




  Flight Manuals                                     F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                                                Engine
                                              Overheat/Fire            DED

       Drag Chute
                                                                                ICP/DED
                Alt Gear          M.Caution                      ICP             Power          CNI
                 Reset                              Canopy                                     Rocker
Alt Gear                                            Unlock




                                                                                          Course

                                                                       Threat
                 Gear                               Swap               Volume        CRS
       Gnd       Status
     Jettison                                 Nav                                            HDG
                                                                     Jammer
                          EWS
                          Panel        Gain                                       TWS
                                                                 Nav              Cntl
                                                                 Mode             Panel
  JETTSION                    EWS              MFD
                              Mode             Power
                                                               MFD
                                                                                                   TWS
                                                        FCR                                        Status
                                                       Power


  Flight Manuals                                       F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                                                                    RWR
                                               EWS                  Power
                                              Program




                                     RWR
                 Compass


    EJECT
                                            HSI
                             TWS           Course
                                                           Jammer
                                                            Power

                                                                 Jammer
                                                                  Status     Flare
                                                                   ON        Power
                                                                CAUTION
                                                                                     Chaff
                                                                  FAIL
                                                                                     Power




                        1    2         3




                                                                            EJECT


             4           5       6    7


1. VVI Indicator Gauge

2. Analogue Clock

3. L Eng + R Eng RPM Gauges

4. Altitude Indicator

5. ADI

6. Speed + Mach Indicator

7. HSI




  Flight Manuals                                    F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
RAMP START
In order to RAMP Start, the Pilot must first cycle to the Left Engine, before cycling to the Right
Engine, and finally switch to Both Engines. 5


                     Use the keystroke             Shift-Ctrl- h to bring up the Engine Display.
                     Use the keystroke            Ctrl- o to cycle to your Left Engine.
                     Spool the Left Engine
                     Use the keystroke            Ctrl- o to cycle to your Right Engine.
                     Spool the Right Engine
                     Use the keystroke            Ctrl- o to cycle to BOTH your engines.
                     Complete your Rampstart (remember to use the RAMP View for some steps)




suggested ramp-procedure:
1.  Enable Engine view (shft-ctl-h)
2.  Cycle to Left Engine (ctrl-o)
3.  Apply Parking Brake
4.  Main Power to On
5.  Engage Left Engine Master (Right Panel)
5.  Master Fuel      On / Fuel Feed    NORM
6.  Air Source      NORM
7.  [Throttle to Idle.] Engage JFS. [Observe RPM is rising to 20%][Throttle to 50%]
8.  Press Idle Detent. [Throttle to 70% / Observe RPM is rising to 60% / Throttle back to idle.]
9.  Master Lights      NORM / Anti-Collision Light     ON / Wingtip Lights      BRT
10. DED      ON. MFD        ON. FCR        ON. GPS      ON.
11. INS align     NORM.
12. Cycle to Right Engine (ctrl-o)
13.  Engage Right Engine Master (Right Panel)
13. Air Source      NORM
14 [Throttle to Idle.] Engage JFS. [Observe RPM is rising to 20%][Throttle to 50%]
15 Press Idle Detent. [Throttle to 70% / Observe RPM is rising to 60% / Throttle back to idle.]
16. Cycle to BOTH engines (ctrl-o)
17. [Go to Ramp View] Left Hdpt; Right Hdpt; Centre Hdpt; Gun ON
18. Adjust HUD brightness / Adjust Instrument lights / Set TACAN Channel.
19. COMM1, COMM2, MSL, THREAT                Adjust Volume
20. EWS Power + Jammer ON / Chaff & Flares Activate / EWS Set Mode + Program
21. Oxygen ON; Set CAT Switch; MAL/IND Check.
22. Check INS in DED is rising. When “RDY” flashes, set INS NAV / Enable Radar Alt.
23. Close Canopy / Taxi Lights ON / IFF NORM / Arm ejection seat / Anti-Ice (as required)
24. Configure MFDs / Configure SMS Page
25. Enable NWS / Press RTN button for DED.
26. Disable engine view (shf-ctrl-h) / Request Taxi clearance.
27. (After climb-out) Set RF + Master Arm + Wpns systems as applicable.




5
    A Dual-Engine RAMP Start Training Mission is included in your install.


Flight Manuals                                                            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
        Phantom 3D Pit




Flight Manuals   F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Flight Manuals   F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
The         F-104   Starfighter




2 D         F l i g h t        M a n u a l

Flight Manuals            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
 1 = Eject handle            22 = ECM                            INSTRUMENTS
 2 = Gear handle             23 = HUD brightness
 3 = Emergency jettison      24 = Fuel transfer                  1 = CLock
 4 = RF silent               25 = Master arm                     2 = G dial
 5 = Alternate gear          26 = Master fuel                    3 = Fuel quantity
 6 = Landing lights          27 = Left Hardpoint power           4 = ADI baclup
 7 = Manual reticule         28 = Right Hardpoint power          5 = Altitude
 8 = Laser Arm               29 = Parking brake                  6 = G dial
 9 = MFD Gain up             30 = Anti-collision lights          7 = Temperature
 10 = MFD gain down          31 = ICP next                       8 = RPM
 11 = MAL and IND test       32 = ICP previous                   9 = Oil
 12 = Drift c/o              33 = ICP Up                         10 = Nozzle
 13 = HUD DED                34 = ICP down                       11 = EPU fuel
 14 = HUD Radar              35 = ICP reset                      12 = Fuel flow
 15 = MPO                    36 = ICP sequence                   13 = Exhaust
 16 = Kneeboard Steerpoint   37 = Parking brake                  14 = FTIT
 17= Kneeboard Briefing      38 = Autopilot roll hold            15 = Magnetic compass
 18= Kneeboard Map           39 = Autopilot pitch hold           16 = HSI
 19 = Canopy handle          40 = A/A mode                       17 = ADI ball
 20 = Master Arm             41 = A/G mode                       18 = Mach indicator
 21 = Main power             42 = Nav mode
                             43 = EWS RWR POWER




Flight Manuals                                            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
   1 = Seat arm                  23 = MFD power
   2 = Idle detent               24 = DL power
   3 = Instruments mode          25 = ICP reset
   4 = RF silent                 26/27 = ICP up/down
   5 = CAT I/III                 28 = ICP sequence
   6 = JFS                       29 = Flash/Steady ext lights
   7 = Aux Warn Light Pwr        30 = Wing/Tail ext lights
   8 = IFF power                 31 = External lights power
   9 = AuxComm Master Select     32 = Master fuel
   10 = AuxComm AA/TR Select     33 = EWS RWR power
   11 = AuxComm channel          34 = EWS jammer power
   12 = UHF backup               35 = EWS Chaff power
   13 = Main power               36 = EWS Flare power
   14 = Air source               37 = Comm1 volume
   15 = Nav mode                 38 = Comm2 volume
   16 = A/G mode                 39 = Missile warning volume
   17 = A/A mode                 40 = Threat warning volume
   18 = FCC power                41 = Avionics power
   19 = MAP power                42/43 = ICP next/previous
   20 = UFC power                44 = Autopilot roll hold
   21 = GPS power                45 = Autopilot pitch hold
   22 = SMS power                46 = UHF master select




Flight Manuals                 F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                              3D
                              Pit




Flight Manuals   F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
T h e            M i r a g e     F a m i l y




2 D         F l i g h t         M a n u a l




Flight Manuals             F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Flight Manuals   F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
  Aux Warn Light SEARCH


  Aux Warn Light PWR




  Tgt Separation
  UNKNOWN

  PRI Mode
  NAVAL

  HSI Course select




                          Master Arm




Flight Manuals            F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
  LANDING Gear                                                              Emergency Stores JETTISON



                                                                            ALT GEAR Reset
Landing Lights                                                              CATI / III Switch
                                                                            UHF Backup
                                                                            UHF Master Select
Ext Steady/Flash
                                                                            CNI
Anti-Collision                                                              SEAT ARM

Exterior Lights

Wing Lights
LEF LOCK

RF Switch                                                                   EJECT Lever




                                                                     Main Power Switch

                                                                     Warning Reset Switch


                                                                     ICP Comm 1
                                                                     ???
                                                                     ICP Comm 2

                                                                     LIST
                                                                     CLEAR

SEQ                                                                  INSERT

CNI Up/Down

CNI RETURN




                                                                     Aux COM Band Digit
                   Instrument Mode Selection switch

                                                      Aux COM AA/TR Select




Flight Manuals                                 F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
Com2 Vol
Com1 Vol
AVTR


Threat Warn Volume

VMS Inhibit

                                                                                                         Radar Silent Switch mode


                                                                                                         VTH Altitude mode


                                                                                                         VTH Reticle

                                                                                                         VTH Scale
MAL & IND Test
                                                                                                         VTH Velcoity Mode

Yaw/Trim

Trim AP Disconnect                                                                                       VTH Brightness

MSL Warn Volume                                                                                          Drift / CO




                                MPO Switch     Aux warn / light alt      EWS program     FLARE        SEARCH

                     Master Caution      MFD/OSBs                 EWS mode       Chaff    Light Pwr




HUD Radar


AP Roll Hold

AP Pitch Hold
                                                                                                               Unknown
                                                                                                               PriMode
MFD/OSBs
                                                                                                               Target Separation
                                                                                                               Naval




Flight Manuals                                                         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                         Cabin Lights           EPU Switch               Master Fuel

   Air Source




                                                                                            JSF Switch


                                                                                          Parking Brake



 Instrument Lights




                     MPO Switch      Aux warning
                                                              EWS Prog     Flare       Search

                                  MFD / Osb’s        Ews           Chaff       Light
                                                     Mode                      Pwr




                                                                                                Unknown


                                                                                                   Pri Mode
   MFD/OSBs

                                                                                                Tgt Separation


                                                                                                   Naval


                                         HSI heading select      ECM on/off            HSI course select




Flight Manuals                                         F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                 2k-C 3D Pit



                 2k-D 3D Pit
Flight Manuals     F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
                 5-F 3D Pit

                          2000-5F
                          2000-C
                          2000-D




Flight Manuals     F R E E F A L C O N 5.0
