Landing Instructions

1. Initial Approach. Align your aircraft with the landing runway at 1,500 feet above ground level (AGL) and 300
knots calibrated airspeed (KCAS).

2. Overhead Break. Break left or right over the desired touchdown point, set throttle to about 80% RPM, and
open the speedbrakes. Fly the break at about 70 deg of bank and 3-4 G. Align the HUD Flight Path Marker with
the Horizon Line to maintain a level turn.

3. Downwind Leg. Roll out on the downwind leg opposite the landing heading at about 200-220 KCAS and
1,500 feet AGL. Extend the landing gear and confirm three green gear down indications. Reduce speed as
required to prevent excessive airspeed buildup in the base turn and trim to an angle of attack (AOA) of 11
degrees.

4. Base Turn. Initiate the base turn when abeam the rollout point. You may estimate this position by starting the
turn when your wingtip is at the end of the runway when viewed from the cockpit. Lower the nose to 8-10
degrees and fly the turn at 11 degrees AOA.

5. Final Turn. Use your throttle to control airspeed while using the stick maintain 8-10 degrees nose low and 11
degrees AOA through the turn. Roll out on final and raise the nose to maintain proper glide path. The goal is to
roll out in line with the runway at approximately 300 feet AGL one mile from the touchdown point. Align the HUD
flight path marker and 2.5-degree pitch ladder with the runway threshold to ensure proper glidepath while
maintaining 11-degrees AOA.

6. Short Final. When over the overrun, the portion of the runway before the primary surface starts, shift the
flight path marker forward to a point 300-500 down the runway. Gently pull back on the stick to flare and reduce
the descent rate but do not level off. Pull the throttle back to idle and touchdown with a maximum AOA of 13
degrees. More than 15 degrees during the landing roll-out may cause the speedbrakes or engine nozzle to
contact the runway so use gentle stick inputs to avoid overcontrolling the aircraft.

7. Roll-Out. Maintain 13 degrees nose-up attitude for two-point aerodynamic braking until your airspeed has
reduced to approximately 100 knots. Reduce back stick pressure and lower the nosewheel to the runway. Open
the speedbrakes fully and maintain full aft stick for maximum braking effectiveness.
Apply moderate to heavy braking to slow the aircraft. Engage nosewheel steering when below 30 knots unless it
is required earlier to prevent departure from the runway.

