
Setup type: Complete 1966 F1 Mod Installation

Selected components: GPL F1 1966 Mod 1.0 Mono GPL F1 1966 Mod Sounds
      1.0

1966mod_readme

1966 mod for Grand Prix Legends

Before installing 1966 mod, first install Gem+ 2.5.8 and new iGor for
online racing. http://gem.ebi-service.de/

Requires a full version of Grand prix Legends version 1.2.0.2 You can
use the GPL 2004 Demo, a self patched GPL with the 1.2.0.2 patch, the
latest All-In-One patch, or the GPLPS Installer.


If you do not have them already, we recommend you install these add-on
tracks used in the 1966 Championship and Non-Championship races from
the GPL Track Data Base http://gpltd.bcsims.com/ or by following the
links provided.

East London http://gplmz.bcsims.net/tracks/eastlndn_GPL.zip

Syracuse http://home.arcor.de/pierre.dietze/pierre.dietze/syracuse.htm

Reims ( reims 1967 ) http://gpltd.bcsims.com/tracks/reims_gpl.zip

Brands Hatch ( brands67 )
http://dixierunners.speedgeezers.net/brands1967/

Oulton Park ( Oulton Park 1967 )
http://www.zenadsl5531.zen.co.uk/Tracks/Oulton/

Monza10k http://www.dixierunners.speedgeezers.net/monza10k/

By default "66SEASON" will be selected for the 66mod which is why we
recommend you install the add-on tracks listed.



Installing the 1966 mod : Run the installer. When prompted by the
installer check the path to your GPL installation is correct.

Create a player in GPL for 1966. Exit GPL

Start Gem+ 2.5.8 Click on the Carsets button to open the "Select and
Modify Carsets" box.  Move 1966 Grand Prix into the "active" ( right
hand ) column Click on 1966 Grand Prix and check " GPL66 " is selected
in the physics box.  Click "ok " to close the "Select and Modify
Carsets" box.  Select your 1966 player from the player drop down.
Select "1966 Grand Prix (GPL66)" for your player.  Finally, click on
the green GPL button to launch 1966 mod and build a new "gplc66.exe


The 1966 Season.  Hailed as the "return to power" the 1966 season saw
the start of the new 3 litre formula.  Some teams were more ready than
others and as a consequence a wide variety of engines and chassis were
used ranging from Ferrari's new purpose built 3 litre V12 ( 312 ) to
modified 65 season engines which were bored out to 2 litres.  There
were also various 4 cylinder Climax engines plus a 2.4 litre V6 ( 246
) Ferrari based on the "Dino" engine.

Brabham : Jack Brabham's "Brabham Racing Organisation" had
commissioned "Repco" to build a 3 litre V8 loosely based on a alloy
Buick engine. Mounted in the new light and nimble BT19 chassis the
combination would go on to win the 1966 World Championship.  Although
not the most powerful in the field it proved to be a most reliable
contender. A later BT20 fitted with the same engine was campaigned by
Brabham's team mate Denny Hulme.  Team Brabham also ran a BT11 chassis
fitted with a 2.5 lt 4 cylinder Climax engine for Hulme in the first
few races of the 1966 season.  "DW Racing Enterprises" ran a similar
but privately entered BT11 powered by a longer stroke 2.7 lt 4
cylinder Climax engine in the hands of their driver Bob Anderson.  A
third BT11 chassis was also campaigned by David Bridges Racing and Rob
Walker teams. This car was powered by a high revving BRM 2 litre V8.

BRM : The "Owen Racing Organisation" otherwise know as BRM was one of
the teams caught on the hop.  Tony Rudd who was the chief designer at
BRM made the fateful decision to build the complex "H16"
engine. Although the engine promised an abundance of power the reality
was that the engine's weight negated any power advantage. Besides this
it took longer than expected to build and develop which meant the team
starting the season with last years V8 engines modified and bored out
to just under 2 litres.  When the H16 finally did arrive it was mated
to the new P83 chassis. In the mean time the older P261 chassis was
used in conjunction with the 2 litre v8.  The P261 in the hands of
Jackie Stewart won the Monaco Grand Prix while Graham Hill was placed
2nd at the Dutch Grand Prix and 3rd at the British Grand Prix but from
then on good results were thin on the ground.  Another P261 also with
the 2 litre V8 was privately entered by "Team Chamaco Collect" and
mostly driven by Bob Bondurant.

Cooper : The "Cooper Car Company" had recently been taken over by the
Chipstead Group who were also the UK distributors for Maserati.
Although the Maserati engine had its origins in the 50's, politics
dictated that the team would use the Tipo 9 2.5 litre V12 which was
bored out to 3 litres and fitted to the new T81 chassis.  As well as
running the works cars driven by Rindt and Ginther ( the later on loan
from Honda ), Cooper also supplied cars to privateers Rob Walker
Racing, Guy Ligier and Jo Bonnier teams.  Later in the season John
Surtees joined the team after leaving Ferrari. There is no doubt that
Surtees's influence in developing the car greatly improved its
capabilities and this culminated with Surtees winning the last race of
the year at Mexico City.

Anglo American Racers : The Eagle T1G designed by Len Terry for Dan
Gurney's "Anglo American Racers" started the 1966 season powered by a
2.7 litre 4 cylinder Climax engine with which Gurney had some success,
being placed 5th at the French and Mexican Grand Prix and a 7th at the
German Grand Prix.  The Climax engine was always intended as a stop
gap because Gurney has commissioned Harry Weslake to build him a brand
new 3 litre V12 engine. The Weslake V12 eventually arrived late in the
season to make an appearance at Monza and Watkins Glen but reliability
issues meant Gurney running the last race of the season with the
sturdy and reliable Climax unit.

Ferrari : While other teams were arguing with the governing bodies and
trying to get the 3 litre formula changed to 2.5 litres, Ferrari just
got on with it and produced an all new 3 litre V12 to be known as the
312.  John Surtees was Ferrari's top driver and was given the car to
start the season. Lorenzo Bandini had to make do with a 2.6 litre V6
based on the "Dino" mounted in last years chassis to start the
season. But despite this Bandini almost won the Monaco Grand Prix but
had to retire with throttle linkage problems.  In the next race at
Spa-Francorchamps the 312 and John Surtees was unbeatable. Mike Parkes
driving the second 312 scored a creditable 2nd at the French Grand
Prix. Unfortunately Surtees and Ferrari parted company before the
French Grand Prix but the 312 went on to dominate the Grand Prix of
Italy at Monza coming home 1st and 2nd in the hands of Scarfiotti and
Parkes.

Lotus : Colin Chapman's "Team Lotus" was another team without a 3
litre engine so they were forced to use last year's Climax V8 modified
and bored out to 2 litres. This was fitted into the Lotus 33 chassis
also from the 1965 season.  Eventually a deal was done with BRM to use
the H16 engine which was fitted into the all new Lotus 43 chassis but
unfortunately the Lotus Team suffered the same fate as BRM with this
complex and overweight engine which rarely finished a race.  One
exception to this was the United States Grand Prix at Watkins Glen
where Jim Clark who was Chapman's number one driver managed to hold
the car together long enough to cross the line in first place giving
the H16 its only win in 1966.  Lotus also supplied cars to privateer
"Reg Parnell Racing" who entered a Lotus 33 chassis powered by a BRM 2
litre V8 and driven by Mike Spence.

Honda : The 3 litre V12 car known as the Honda RA273 arrived late in
the season to make its debut at Monza where it qualified well being
just over a second off pole. Unfortunately Richie Ginther crashed the
car and did not finish the race.  In the next race at Watkins Glen the
car was once more on the pace, this time less than one second off
pole, but again it did not finish.  The last race of the season saw
the RA273 less than half a second off the pace and 4th on the grid. At
the start it blasted into the lead with phenomenal acceleration. But
tyre troubles later in the race would see it slip down the leader
board eventually finishing one lap down.

Mclaren : Bruce Mclaren had served his apprenticeship with Brabham and
Cooper. For 1966 he decided he wanted to build his own cars and thus
was founded one of the most well known names in racing to this day.
The Mclaren for 1966 was the M2B designed by Robin Herd and powered by
an Indy Car based Ford V8 of 3 litres. As the season progressed
Mclaren would try out the Serenissima V8 but returned to the Ford V8
which gave him most success including a 6th place in the British Grand
Prix and a 5th at Watkins Glen.


The 1966 mod.  All of the 16 different chassis engine combinations
mentioned above are available for the user to drive in the 66mod. Each
with its own individual physics and characteristics and accurately
portrayed 3D car models. The cars can be driven online against real
opponents or against a line up of historically accurate AI which use
the cars and car numbers used in the real 1966 season races.  Because
the AI is different for every championship race, the "team Info"
screen can now be accessed from the race weekend page.


Physics : The 66 mod team have spent the last 2 years developing
physics produced by Richard Cooke which include new code features from
Nigel Pattinson and Gene Fryman. We have striven to bring you as
accurate a representation of the 1966 Grand Prix Season as possible.
New features include high speed body lift and enhanced slipstreaming
code as well as new tyre models for 1966. There have also been many
advances in AI performance giving the off-line user a realistic and
challenging experience.

Options : When scrolling through the "Player Info" screens you will
see some car pics with two different cars depicted. This means there
is a choice of graphics for that car which can be selected in game by
clicking the GRAPHICS drop down.  As well as the "in game" graphic
options there are others which have to be selected manually from the
car folders in gpl/cars66.  There you will find player options to
drive different cars eg. in folder "c07" you will find options to
drive the "Team Chamaco Collect" cars by copying the contents of the
desired folder into the c07 folder. Check the rest of the car folders
to look for other player options to drive.  Each car folder also
contains 2D wheel options and 2D helmet options. These are activated
by copying the contents of the option folder into the car folder.

Mono sounds are shipped as Standard. In the sounds folder you will
find a folder named "66 stereo soundpack" which contains Stereo
versions of the 66 sounds which can be used by copying into the sounds
folder.

Other Features : When using 66mod, Seasons can hold up to 1024 tracks
( instead of 64 ) and every lap time you set will be stored and
displayed in your best laps screen. We hope to extend this feature to
all mods and 67 in the near future.

Engines now run unevenly at low RPM which is more realistic for a 60's
racing engine. The engines start to run cleanly at different RPM
depending on the engine. For example the BRM H16 will run unevenly up
to 6000 RPM or so and then run cleanly as it reaches it's working rev
range.



Per track driver.ini "driv66.ini" are used to allow AI to change cars
and/or car numbers throughout the entire season.  A generic driver ini
is used where there is no "per track driver.ini" present. Per track
driv66.ini are shipped with the mod for the 1966 Championship tracks.
You can add your own driv66.ini to any track by naming it "driv66.ini"
and placing it in the track folder.

The car numbers that are supported in the 66 mod are
1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,
21,22,24,25,26,27,28,30,32,34,36,38,40,42,44,46(player),48.

Per tracks "track66.ini" are supported. Per track "track66.ini" are
shipped with the mod for the 1966 Championship tracks.  You can add
your own Per track "track66.ini" to any track by naming it
"track66.ini" and placing it in the track folder.
 
Mod Specific Graphics as used in the 69 mod are also supported in the
66 mod. Mod specific files can be created and placed in the intended
track folder using these extensions.  mip = m66 3do = 366 trk = t66
page0.pbf = page066.pbf bwpic.pbf = bwpic66.pbf


We at the 66mod team hope you will enjoy using the 66mod as much as we
have enjoyed producing it.  We suggest you start off with one of the
lower powered cars and take a few laps to get used to the mod before
you move onto the more powerful cars.



Credits

Programming (Physics)

Richard Cooke Nigel Pattinson Paul Skingley Gene Fryman ( Codehound )
Lee Bowden

Gem+ support

Paul Thurston

iGor support

Phil Flack Christoph Frick

 
Programming (Graphics) The 1966 carset is based on work by the GPLEA
and the 65mod team, modified for 66 by :-

Charles Mark ( CJM ) Paul Skingley Marco Medici ( Irridux ) Remy Roesz
( remy67 ) Tommie van Ostade ( TvO ) David Wright ( Lo67 ) Arturo
Pereira Doug Hardy ( Do0g ) Sam Dobie Jackseller Pascal Celton Dede
Marc Ostermann Luc Van Gossum


Sound

Jeroen Goedhart tifo


Beta Testers

John King Steve Cloyd ( SteveC43 ) Tom Johnson Michele Sprovieri (
ayrtonsp ) Robby Hunter ( Border Reiver ) Stuart Bartosiak ( sbart UK
) Arturo Pereira Stefan Roess Dan Archey ( Bentcam ) Remy Roesz (
remy67 ) Uli Pilz-Volmerding ( ziege ) Bob Berman ( Royale ) Ken
Murray Danny Thomas Clyde Ransom ( lt1 ) John Ollis Paul Thurston
Terry Worth Paul Skingley John Smith Tommie van Ostade ( TvO ) John
Roberts Syd Drake Ihsan Gin ( GeNiE ) Bob Simpson Pete Gaimari Bernd
Nowak Sergio M. Loro


Web site design Bernd Nowak Gallery Images

Martin Huiskes ( MECH )

  

File hosting and web space Paul Jackson ( SpeedGeezers ) Bill Cooper (
BCsims )
  

1966 Mod for GPL is produced by Paul Skingley
paul@skingley9999.freeserve.co.uk

TRACK: jarama


Jarama 1968 for Grand Prix Legends =======================

Title: Jarama68 Archive: jarama_v10.rar Date: 20/02/2005 Authors:
Fernando Montero "Arch" (Layout) Sergio Loro (Graphics)

Web Site: http://jarama.gaiztor.com E-Mail: jarama@gaiztor.com

the great and beatiful cover was made by John Bradley :) thanks
john!!!

Version =======

1.0 - First released version.

Editors Note I : Since the track use big "drawing ahead" distances may
you get low fps at some parts of tracks, in that case you can use the
jarama.3do placed on the jarama_low_detail.zip file, just unpack this
file at your gpl/tracks/jarama folder.  All textures are Voodo
friendly :)

Editors Note II : the original track do not include brake signs, as it
was on 1968 race, but you can use brake signs if you unpack the mip
files placed on "jarama_bs.zip" file, just unpack this files at your
gpl/tracks/jarama folder.

Track description =================

Jarama is a track located 27 Km in the north of Madrid. It was built
in 1967 designed by famous circuit designer John Hugenholz, who had
laid out both Zandvoort and Suzuka, and hosted a Non Championship race
in 1967, which was won by the great Jim Clark. After that, Jarama
hosted Spanish Grand Prix in the even years from 1968 to 1976,
alternating with Montjuich track on odd years, until the fatal
accident of Rolf Stommelen at Montjuich in 1975. The accident was the
end for Montjuic Park and in the late 1970s Jarama hosted all the
races. In 1980, with the war FISA vs FOCA, Jarama hosted an GP with
only FOCA cars running, but the race was considered illegal and did
not count to the World Championship. Jarama hosted his last Spanish
Grand Prix in 1981 in a slightly modified layout (a bit longer main
straigth and a little modification at Bugatti turn), and that was one
of the best F1 races ever, with Gilles Villenueve winning after
leading a queue of cars behind him for 67 laps, with the fifth only
1,24 s from Gilles at the finish line.

After 1981, F1 never raced again here because of the bad facilities of
the track due to the lack of interest of the Royal Automobile Club of
Spain, which seemed to be more interested in the golf course next to
the circuit than in the circuit itself.

We did the 1968 layout, as realistic as we could. The base for the
layout is a high resolution satellite picture, and all the atmosphere
we created was based on pictures from that years.



Installation ============

To install the track you must have a copy of GPL or GPL 2004 Demo
installed. Just unzip all the files on to a directory and run
Trackinstall.exe.



Thanks ======

And our thanks goes to (in no particular order):

- Papyrus and David Kaemmer for making this great Sim.  Dave Noonan
- for 3doEd.  Phil Flack for Ase23do,xt2Gtk, Mipman, trk23dowT.  Alex
- Murcia and Eduardo Sanchez for the great information that they gave
- about track altitudes and camber.  Alex Murcia (again) for making
- those beautiful Setups.  Paul Hoad for GplEditor.  Peter Prochazka
- for GplTrk.  Eduardo Sanchez (Cosworth) for Satellite Picture of the
- track.  Jonas Matton and Martin Granberg for GplRa.  Pau Freire for
- Web Design.  Klaus Horbrand for WinMip.  Martin Granberg for
- Trackinstall.  Jorge Nieva for his interest and his diary question
- "Did you finished it yet?"  Gaizka López for the web hosting.
- Joachim Blum for TrkCamEdit.  Marck Beckman for his AI guides.
- RaulV for his help making the layout.  Jacques Bossy for build the
- AI files Robert Zeugin for create a beatiful mips Manuel Roda (MAX
- EL ONE) for his great encyclopedia.  The historic subforums (in
- Spanish) from www.thef1.com for the big amount of pictures of the
- track I found in them.  And finally the beta testers of the track
- (Eduardo Sánchez, Manuel Zamora, Pau Freire, Gabriel
- Tobar(Z.Zar), Alex Murcia and Gaizka López) for his comments.

Thank you all, guys!



Copyright Notes ===============

This track is free. It must be distributed without change.  My
permission must be asked before to do any addons or changes to this
track.  Authors may NOT use this track as a base to build additional
tracks.  You must include this readme file with the archive.  This
track may not, partially or in full, be posted at any other sites
without express permission.  You may link to my web site, but not
directly to the files.





