
Readme Can-Am 66 modpack

History and Information Website: http://canam66.gplworld.de/

Support/Questions/Ideas/Feedback visit
http://srmz.net/index.php?act=idx

GPL Tracks:

Stardust Downloads: http://gpltd.bcsims.com/?sbtd=stardust

St. Jovite Downloads: http://gpltd.bcsims.com/?sbtd=stjovite

Bridgehampton Downloads: http://gpltd.bcsims.com/?sbtd=bhampton

Mosport Included in the original GPL

Laguna67 Downloads: http://gpltd.bcsims.com/?sbtd=laguna67

Riverside International Raceway 1966 Downloads:
http://srmz.net/index.php?showtopic=11142

Nassau Oakes Field Course Downloads:
http://srmz.net/index.php?showtopic=11166



History

The Canadian American Challenge Cup Series (Can-Am) started out as a
race series for Group 7 sports racers with two races in Canada and
four races in the United States of America. The Series was governed by
rules called out under the FIA Group 7 category with unrestricted
engine capacity and few other technical restrictions.

The Group 7 category was essentially a Formula Libre for sports cars;
the regulations were minimal and permitted unlimited engine sizes (and
allowed turbocharging and supercharging), virtually unrestricted
aerodynamics, and were as close as any major international racing
series ever got to anything goes. As long as the car had two seats and
bodywork enclosing the wheels, and met basic safety standards, it was
legal. Group 7 had arisen as a category for non-homologated sports car
'specials' in Europe and for a while in the 1960s Group 7 racing was
popular in the United Kingdom as well as a class in hillclimb racing
in Europe. Group 7 cars were designed more for short-distance sprints
than for endurance racing. Some Group 7 cars were also built in Japan
by Nissan and Toyota, but these did not compete outside their homeland
(though some of the Can-Am competitors went over to race against them
occasionally).

SCCA (Sports Car Club of America) sports car racing was becoming more
popular with European constructors and drivers, and the United States
Road Racing Championship ( USRRC ) for large-capacity sports racers
eventually gave rise to the Group 7 Can-Am series in 1966. There was
good prize and appearance money and plenty of trade backing; the
series was lucrative for its competitors but resulted, by its end, in
truly outrageous cars with well over 1000 horsepower (750 kW) (the
Porsche team claimed 1,500 hp (1,100 kW) for its 917/30 in qualifying
trim in 1973), wings, active downforce generation, very light weight
and unheard of speeds. Similar Group 7 cars ran in the European
Interserie series, but this was much lower-key than the Can-Am.

Can-Am was the birthplace and proving ground for (what was at the
time) outrageous technology. Can-Am cars were among the first race
cars to sport wings, effective turbocharging, ground-effect
aerodynamics, and aerospace materials like titanium. This led to the
eventual downfall of the original series when costs got very much out
of hand, but during its height Can-Am cars were at the cutting edge of
racing technology and were frequently as fast as or even faster than
their contemporary Formula One cars. Noted constructors in the Can-Am
Series included McLaren, Chaparral, Lola, BRM, Shadow and Porsche.

Notable drivers in the original Can-Am series included virtually every
acclaimed driver of the late 1960s and early 1970s. Jim Hall, Mark
Donohue, Mario Andretti, Parnelli Jones, George Follmer, Dan Gurney,
Phil Hill, Denny Hulme, Bruce McLaren, Peter Revson, and John Surtees
all drove Can-Am cars competitively and were successful, winning races
and championship titles.

The Canadian American Challenge Cup Series was, in many racing fan's
minds, North America's greatest road racing series ever. Can-Am grew
from the USRRC for Sports Racing and GT cars formed in 1963 by Tracy
Bird, then head of the SCCA, in consultation with Jim Hall of United
States Road Racing Championship and Chaparral fame. In 1965, the
Canadian Automobile Sports Club (CASC) and the Sports Car Club of
America (SCCA) along with the race tracks and promoters recognized the
fan appeal of unlimited sports racing cars and created the Can-Am
series for 1966. The unlimited sports cars six race 1966 Can-Am began
in Canada at St. Jovite - Mt. Tremblant circuit and soon raced at
Mosport, Watkins Glen, Riverside, Laguna Seca, Mid-Ohio, Road Atlanta,
Elkhart Lake and all the great road racing circuits in North America.

The 1966 Can-Am season was perhaps one of the most exciting of all. At
the season opener at St. Jovite, John Surtees drove his red Lola T70
Chevrolet to victory just 5 seconds in front of Bruce McLaren in his
own McLaren M1B Oldsmobile after a 75 lap long 2 hour battle. The
series continued at the Zandvoort-esque Bridgehampton racetrack
located near New York, where Dan Gurney won the race in his Lola T70
Ford Weslake, narrowly beating Chris Amon racing for Bruce McLaren's
team. The Bridgehampton round saw the first appearance of the winged
Chaparrals, 1961 F1 World Champion Phil Hill coming home in fourth
place in his Chaparral 2E. The series continued at Mosport, with a
young Mark Donohue getting his and Roger Penske's first Can-Am win,
driving a Lola T70 Chevrolet. Roger Penske's cars have always been a
prime example in immaculate preperation, and this gruelling third
round of the championship provided a great opportunity to show it.

After a three week break the 1966 season continued at Laguna Seca. It
would turn out to be the only ever Can-Am win for the innovative and
previously all-conquering Chaparral team, with Phil Hill taking
victory on aggregate in the two heat race, after winning the first
heat and finishing runner-up in the second. Chaparral founder Jim Hall
was able to complete the party with a second place. The swoopy
Califoria road course was extremely suited for the Chaparral, with
it's big wing providing grip in the corners, and with no long
straights or slow corners where the drag of it's wing, it's
experimental semi-automatic two speed gearbox or it's slightly weaker
engine compared to the opposition could spoil the fun, although
Parnelli Jones was able to win heat two in his Lola T70 Chevrolet,
beating the white Texan cars.

After Laguna Seca it was onto Riverside, where Surtees managed to beat
Hall for the win after 62 laps. Five of the first seven cars had been
Lola's, and it became clear Surtees would become hard to catch for the
Chaparral and McLaren teams. He proved it by adding another win and
clinching the championship in the Nevada desert at the Stardust
racetrack just outside Las Vegas, after both Chaparrals suffered from
metal fatigue in their wings, resulting in retirement. Bruce McLaren
came home second to finish a succesful albeit winless season for the
McLaren team. Bruce's moments of glory would soon come. Peter Revson
showed first signs of promise driving his McLaren M1B Ford Cobra home
in fourth place.


Credits

1966 Can-Am mod team: Shaun Collins (Original 3D car construction) Bob
Berman Chris silence Kleineberg Francesco Molteni Gianfranco
Spinella Greg Liebzeit Martin E.C. Huiskes Richard Cooke Tommie van
Ostade Wolfgang Buthe

Helpers: Arturo Pereira Bernd Nowak Dan 'Bentcam' Archey ginetto
Stefan Roess

Beta testers: Albrecht Kleinfeld Andreas Gebhardt Axel 'Cookie' Koch
Axel Cordt Bob Simpson Dave Flock Davide Nativo Doni Yourth Iestyn
Davies Mario Wilhelm Martin 'Maddog' Hunt Paul Skingley Robert Fleurke
Robert Hunter Urban Alsenmyr Warren Hall Jr.

