
1967F2 Mod for Grand Prix Legends


In order to allow the community to begin enjoying this Mod without
further delay, we have decided to release the 1967 F2 Mod in two
parts.  Originally, it was intended that this Mod would utilise the
facility to have race specific track.ini files, as used in the 66, 69
extra and GT mods, in order to recreate the 10 rounds of the 1967
European Formula Two Championship. However, the extra work required to
achieve this will still take a number of months to complete, and so it
has been decided that since the physics for this Mod are complete and
because we have a full working generic carset for the Mod for both AI
and online use, there is no need to delay the release of this Mod
while these other files are prepared.

Due to the way in which this Mod is constructed, these additional AI
files can be released after the Mod as an add-on without affecting the
operation of the mod itself.

Along with these race-specific AI, it is also intended that we will
update and improve some details of the various car models and car
skins, but again this is not possible on the time scale of a Christmas
2011 initial release. In particular, the Ferrari car model needs some
work in order to complete it to the standard of the other car
models. Since the Ferrari 166 was not extensively raced during the
1967 Formula Two season, and when it was used it was fairly
uncompetitive, and since none of the generic AI is assigned to use
that car, we do not feel that the use of the current Ferrari model as
a place holder until the final version can be completed detracts
particularly from the Mod as presented here.

The driver line up in the generic AI that we are shipping with the Mod
represents a spectrum of the drivers who regularly competed in the
1967 European Formula Two Championship rounds, and has also been
chosen to utilise the range of available cars within the mod, while
not over representing some of the more successful models above some of
the privateer teams. All of the AI drivers have also been selected to
use a car number, car model and car skin that each selected driver did
actually use during the 1967 European F2 championship. Even with the
future release of the track specific car skins for all ten European F2
rounds, this generic AI line up will remain in place for any other
tracks selected to race this Mod on where a dedicated track.ini does
not exist.

We hope that the community can understand that while this release is
not the "final" or "complete" version of this mod, the Mod itself is
"finished" in terms of physics and usability and all future updates
will be graphical and cosmetic to improve the visual appearance of
this Mod while not affecting its use in any way.


1967F2 Mod credit list

Modding/Texturing/Testing

Charles Mark Richard Cooke Remy Roesz Paul Skingley Lee Bowden Tommie
van Ostade Martin E. Huiskes Ginetto Francesco Molteni Jackseller Rob
Hunter Martin Hunt

Gilles Maltais, who worked on the very early version


1967F2 expert and info provider

Michel Vigneres


Layout

Michel Vigneres Arturo Pereira


Sounds

Wolfgang Buthe


Additionnal info providers

Swen Beuchert Duncan S


Default setups

John Roberts


Additional testers

Stuart Bartosiak Stefan Roess Andreas Gebhardt Bob Simpson Julien
Mondragon


Special thanks to Stefan Roess and Paul Whitfield for hosting the Mod
and building the F2 Website


Promotion video

Absolutely stunnig video by the Master : Rudolf Goertz aka Slowmoe



Tracks :

First, we recommend you install the following add-on tracks, the
installer will add Mod specific program covers. It's not mandatory,
but the track folders will be created and stay almost empty

-Brands67 Hockenheim Jarama

Get Enna track here :

http://srmz.net/inde...?showtopic=7533






Installation :

1/ Run the installer, check the path for installation is correct.Vista
and W7 users may have to run it as "administrator" and will probably
have to reboot, even if it isn't a GPL requirement, sorry for that.

2/ Launch Gpl.exe from your GPL install and create your F2 driver

3/Start gem/carsets and activate "GPLF2" Make sure "GPLF2" physics are
selected.

4/Select your 67F2 Mod player and select "1967 Formula 2" for the
player. Check that "carsF2" has been selected.

5/Exit Gem and a gplcf2.exe will be created.


Ingame, don't forget to select the Formula 2 level and adjust
graphics, sounds and other features to your taste


OPTIONS :

Have a look at the cars subfolders, you'll find many Type7 dashboards
(Rast V2 required) and several player options



The F2 Mod Team, December 2011

GPL67F2 Site


Have fun!

