Go Review Partner Documentation

http://yuntingdian.com/goreviewpartner/grp-doc...
Highlighting stones or intersection

1 Software purpose

Go Review Partner ("GRP") is a tool to help analyze and review your games of go (weiqi, baduk) using bots.
GRP is not yet another SGF editor, it won't allow you to view or modify (adding variations or comments) an existing SGF ﬁle.
Instead, it takes one existing SGF ﬁle and "feeds it" to a bot (currently, GnuGo, Leela, Ray, AQ and Leela Zero are supported) then has the bot
give its "opinion" on the best moves to play for each game position.
Additionally, GRP proposes a nice interface to review all those data.
There exists 2 others softwares that can be used to perform analysis of SGF ﬁle using Leela Zero:

Leela Sabaki is closer to a normal SGF editor,
Lizzie can be used to perform analysis of a given position, in a very interactive way.

Both projects are cool, and you should deﬁnitively have a try as well. GRP diﬀers from those projects in that it performs the analysis of a
complete game record in one shot, automatically. In this regard, it can be used on old or slow computers to analyze your game when you are
not at your computer (during the night, or during working hours), saving the analysis result for when you have time to review it. Also, GRP does
not limit itself to Leela Zero, and aims at supporting any strong and popular bots.

2 Game review work-ﬂow

Basically, it's a two step process:

Analysis of a SGF ﬁle by a bot to produce a RSGF ﬁle
Review of that RSGF ﬁle using GRP interface

2.1 Analysis of SGF by a bot

Simply speaking, this consists in opening the SGF ﬁle using GRP, selecting a bot for the analysis, then have it perform the analysis.
You also have the possibility to select a speciﬁc range of move to perform the analysis, or only one color.
Beware, the analysis can take quite a bit of time. The higher your level, the higher you want the bot to be stronger to give valuable insights on
your game. So if you want the bot to spend 20 seconds to review each of the game moves, and if it is a 250 moves game, then be ready to wait
for more than 2 hours.
Also, the analysis will give a lot of work to your computer during this time, so your computer might become really unresponsive, to the point
you might not be able to use it!
So go ahead, grab a cup of tea/coﬀee, have a nap, play a few games on-line, do some tsumego, whatever... then come back to your computer
when the analysis is completed.
So what will your computer be doing during all this time? It depends of the bot you selected for the analysis, but generally speaking, it will stop
at each moves of your game, then ask the bot what move it would play for that position. In fact, it will probably come up with more than one
move, and for each of those moves, it will also have a follow up sequence as it imagines the game would proceed from that point. Usually,
additional informations (like win rate) are provided for all those variations.
During the analysis, all that information is gathered and consolidated by GRP and used to produce a new SGF ﬁle, that is renamed as RSGF
(Reviewed SGF). So if the original game ﬁle was name my_game.sgf, then the resulting RSGF ﬁle will be named my_game.rsgf
See the Running analysis section for more information.

2.2 Review of that RSGF ﬁle using GRP interface

So when the analysis is completed, you end up with and RSGF ﬁle.
In fact, this is a valid SGF ﬁle, but believe me, you don't want to open it with your usual SGF editor. The reason for that is that the analysis will
have produced a very big game tree: imagine that for each of the 250 moves of your game, 5 variations have been added (each variation being
~10 moves deep), then it will be very painful to review it using a standard SGF editor.
Still want to open it with your usual SGF editor? Sure! No big deal, rename the ﬁle from .rsgf to .sgf and have a look for yourself.
When too much information is available, the way to present it and navigate through it is critical. And so GRP comes with an interface adapted to
those RSGF ﬁles.
See the Game review section for more information.

3 Installation and running

In fact, it is not really possible to install GRP so far, it's a stand-alone application that come without installer. So there are two ways to run GRP:

From a bundled download (<= this is the easy way for Microsoft Windows users)
From the sources
3.1 Running from a bundled download

This is the recommended way if you are using a Microsoft operating system, and don't want to download bots and set up GRP yourself. You will
ﬁnd download links from the project main page at http://yuntingdian.com/goreviewpartner/.
Download the ZIP archives, unzip it wherever you think is appropriate. Inside, you will ﬁnd a GoReviewPartner.exe executable, just run it.
Make sure to extract the ZIP in a folder with read/write access. The Documents or Desktop folders are ﬁne.

3.2 Running from the sources

Running GRP from the sources is not as complicated as it seems. There is not "compilation" needed, and in fact, this is the recommended way
to run it if your are a bit comfortable with computers.
Running GRP from the sources also unlocks additional features, like batch analysis of games.

3.2.1 Installing python and TkInter

GRP is programmed using python 2, so you will need python 2 to run on your computer. GRP also uses the TkInter library to display its graphical
interface, so make sure to have that installed as well:

If your computer is running a Microsoft operating system, then TkInter will be included with the standard python installation. Go ahead and
download python from the python website, choose the latest version 2 (version 2.7.x). It should be a .msi ﬁle, save it on your computer
then run it to install python.
For other operating systems (*nix systems), you may have to install Python and TkInter separately. Depending of your operating system, it
should be something like sudo apt-get install python python-tk

3.2.2 Downloading and running from the sources

At this point, you will want to download the sources for GRP. They are hosted on github at https://github.com/pnprog/goreviewpartner, look for
the green button "Clone or download" and then "Download ZIP". That zip should be named goreviewpartner-master.zip. Unzip it wherever
you think is appropriate.
Finally, you have to run GRP:

Under a Microsoft operating system, open the folder containing the sources, look for a ﬁle name main.py and run it using Python.
For other operating systems, open a terminal, then "cd your way" to the folder where the sources are located, then run python main.py

GRP is now hopefully working, you will have to set it up to use one or more bots. See the Settings section for more information.

4 Main panel and software overview

Here is what you will see when launching GRP:

Run a SGF ﬁle analysis will lead you to select a SGF ﬁle on your computer and run an analysis on this ﬁle. See the Running analysis section
for more information.
In a very similar way, Download a SGF ﬁle for analysis will lead you to enter the URL for a SGF ﬁle, then download it from the network on
your computer and run an analysis on this ﬁle. This comes handy for modern Go servers like OGS that provide direct download links to the
games. It avoids you the intermediate step to save the ﬁle ﬁrst, and then open it from inside GRP. See the Running analysis section for more
information.
Run a live analysis allows you to record a game or play against a bot, while, in the background, having the analysis proceed. This is a way to
save on the analysis time, so that when the game is over, part of the analysis is already completed, and the review can start immediately. See
the Running live analysis section for more information.
Open a RSFG ﬁle for review will lead you to select a RSGF ﬁle from your computer and open it for review. See the Game review section for
more information.
Convert RSGF ﬁle to SGF ﬁle will lead you to select a RSGF ﬁle to convert it to a SGF ﬁle. See the Convert RSGF ﬁle to SGF ﬁle section for
more information.
Convert RSGF ﬁle to CSV ﬁle will lead you to select a RSGF ﬁle to convert it to a CSV ﬁle. See the Convert RSGF ﬁle to CSV ﬁle section for
more information.
Settings is where you deﬁne the bots to use for analysis, some of their working parameters, and a few other settings for GRP. If you are
running GRP from the sources (not from a bundled download) then setting GRP is a necessary step prior to any game analysis and review.
If GRP did not ﬁnd any bot set in its conﬁguration, the analysis will be disable. The main panel will then look like this:

This means you should have a look at the setting panel. See the Settings section for more information.

5 Settings

This is what you will see when opening the Settings panel of GRP:

It is currently divided in 6 sections:

Go Review Partner: settings related to GRP
AQ: settings related to AQ
GnuGo: settings related to GnuGo
Leela: settings related to Leela
Ray: settings related to Ray
Leela Zero: settings related to Leela Zero

You can navigate between the diﬀerent sections using the left side panel.

5.1 Go Review Partner settings

Below are the settings available for this section, together with their meanings:
Language: This parameter deﬁnes GRP interface language. Default is English, and so far French, German, Korean and Chinese are available as
alternative translations. The additional translations are not 100% completed, so you will occasionally ﬁnd some part of the interface in English
when the corresponding translation is missing.
GRP needs to be restarted for this parameter to take eﬀect.
If you are interested in helping translate GRP to other languages, please let me know. GRP uses a Gettext like type of internationalization
system, so it does not need programming skills to add support for a new language to GRP.
Maximum number of variations to record during analysis: Usually a bot will propose up to 10 variations for each moves. But some bots
(like Leela Zero) will happily provide you with data on more than 300 variations per move ! To avoid the RSGF ﬁles size to become too big, this
setting put a limit to the number of variations that can be recorded into the RSGF ﬁle. Because each variation is labeled with a letter during the
review, it's probably not necessary to record more than 26 variations.
Only keep variations when game move and bot move diﬀer: This option tells GRP to discard all variations for one position when the bot
best move and the game actual move are not the same. This is useful to reduce the size of the RSGF ﬁle, especially if one want to review the
RSGF ﬁle using a standard SGF editor.
Save bot command line into RSGF: This option allows to save the command line into the RSGF ﬁle as a reference. Command line sometime
can contain useful informations like play-outs limit, number of threads used or weights ﬁle.
Stop the analysis if the bot resigns: During the analysis, when one side win rate probability drops too low, the bot will sometime propose to
resign. This option allows stopping automatically the analysis at that point to save time. This feature won't aﬀect the Live Analysis.
Natural stone placement: This parameter deﬁnes how accurately the stones are positioned on the goban intersection. A value of 0 means
perfect placement. You probably do not want to go for values higher than 0.3
Below is what it looks for diﬀerent values:

value = 0

value = 0.25

value = 0

value = 0.25

value = 0.5

value = 0.75

Real Game sequence deepness: This parameter deﬁnes how many moves from the actual game you want to be previewed on the 2 actual
game tabs during review. You can compare the results of having this value set at 5 or set at 20 on the two following pictures:
Real game sequence deepness = 5:

Real game sequence deepness = 20:

Maximum number of variations to display during review: Usually a bot will propose up to 10 variations for each moves. Sometime more.
You may want to limit the number of variations to display during the review, and only keep the one with the highest win rate. This is what this
setting is there for. The diﬀerence with the Maximum number of variations to record during analysis setting is that the former controls how
many variations are saved in the RSGF ﬁle, white the second controls how many variations are displayed. If a friend of you send you a big RSGF
ﬁle with too many variations for you, you can reduce the number of variations displayed on your computer to focus only on the best 3
variations.
Blue/red coloring of the variations: This setting proposes three ways to color the variations proposed by the bot:

Win rate > 50% in blue : Only the variations with a win rate higher than 50% will be represented in blue.
The best variation in blue : Only one variation, the one that the bot would have selected, will be in blue. Keep in mind a bot does not
necessarily play the move with the highest win rate, especially when that variation was not backed by a high number of simulations.
Variations better than actual game move in blue : Only the variations with a win rate higher than the win rate of the game actual
move will be represented in blue.

As GnuGo does not provide win rate for his variations, they are always represented in black. Also, the game move win rate is determined by
calculating the win rate of the bot best reply to that move. That means that, in order to have all the win rates available at each move, the
analysis must have covered both colors.
Labels for variations: Two possibilities are available:

Letters as label : Variations are labeled with letters, from best variation labeled as A.
Percentages as label : Variations are labeled with the variation win rate. Keep in mind a bot does not necessarily play the move with the
highest win rate, especially when that variation was not backed by a high number of simulations.

You can compare the diﬀerence on the two images below:

Letters as label

Rates as label

Invert mouse wheel: The mouse wheel can be used to display the moves of the variations one by one. This option allows to inverse the
mouse wheel.

5.2 Bot settings

The following 5 sections are used to set all bots. All bots share a number of settings in common. Here they are (screen-shot taken from Ray):

Bot common settings
Firstly, for each bot, GRP proposes to set 2 proﬁles:

Slow proﬁle : This proﬁle should be set with a long thinking time, or high number of play-outs, to maximize the bot strength. Such proﬁle
won't be convenient to play because it might take too long to answer your move (like 30s to 2mn), it is advised to use this proﬁle for
analysis only (SGF ﬁle analysis or live analysis).
Fast proﬁle: This proﬁle should be set with a short thinking time or low number play-outs so that the bot can play a move in 10s or less.
Such proﬁle is then indicated for real time play, as an opponent in live analysis, or when opening a position for interactive play.

Both slow proﬁle and fast proﬁle propose to set a command and some parameters for the bot.

Command: This is the path to your bot executable. Path can be absolute or relative, but is it recommended to use absolute path.
Parameters: These is the parameter string to be given to the bot

There is also a button Test that will try to run the bot based on the command and parameters you provided, and redirect the output to a
terminal like windows to help you ensure the bot is working ﬁne, and help debugging the issues if any. The top part of the terminal represents
the standard output of the program, the lower part represents the error output.
For example, when launching Leela on my computer:

GTP terminal
Pressing the Send GTP command can be used to send a GTP command, in this case, the genmove black command that ask the bot to play
one move as black. Here is the result (black plays at C4) on my computer:

GTP terminal
Use this testing feature only to check the bot is working as usual.
Following are the descriptions and speciﬁcs options of the 5 bots available in GRP.

5.2.1 AQ settings

AQ (https://github.com/ymgaq/AQ) is a bot by Yu Yamaguchi, distributed under MIT License. AQ is very strong already and is regarded as the
ﬁrst open source bot having beat a professional player on commodity hardware. Moreover, AQ seems to be used a lot by Japanese pro players
for training on their own Go sever, where AQ has a 95% win rate against them.
Versions 2.1.1 (with or without GPU) is supported.
AQ has been trained on 19x19 boards with komi at 6.5, no handicap and Japanese rule set, so AQ should be you ﬁrst choice to review games
with those conditions if your computer is strong enough.
The settings of AQ is mostly done in the aq_conﬁg.txt ﬁle, but diﬀerent conﬁguration ﬁles can be used for slow proﬁle and fast proﬁle using
the --conﬁg parameter. For instance: --conﬁg=aq_conﬁg_slow.txt The location of the conﬁguration ﬁle can be provided as absolute path, or
path relative to the AQ executable.

5.2.2 GnuGo settings

GnuGo (https://www.gnu.org/software/gnugo/) is a free program that plays the game Go.
Its strength is nowhere near that of Ray, Leela, Leela Zero or AQ, but its analysis is still relevant if your strength is about 11kyu or weaker.
Beside, GnuGo runs well and fast on old computers (Ray, Leela and AQ won't run on 32-bit computers), can play on 9x9, 13x13 and 19x19
boards, with all sort of handicaps and all possible komi values.
GnuGo is not using Monte Carlo methods (MTCS) so its behavior may feels much more human in those situations:

GnuGo is loosing the game: it will still play until the end, and try to maximize its score, not its win rate (no horizon eﬀect)
GnuGo is winning by a large margin: its will still try to maximize its score, not its win rate, so its won't gave points away and win the game
by 0.5 points
The above points are particularly true in handicap games

Some of the parameters you may want to add are:

--mode=gtp in fact, you must add this parameter, as it tells GnuGo to run in GTP mode

--Chinese-rules add this parameter to tell GnuGo to use Chinese scoring
--level=10 add this parameter to adjust the level of GnuGo. Default level is 10

GnuGo speciﬁc settings are:

Maximum number of variations: this is the maximal number of variations you want GnuGo to come up with for each moves. Usually,
GnuGo won't have more than 10, but you may want to reduce this number to make the analysis faster.
Deepness for each variation: This is, for each variations, how deep GnuGo should keep playing. The higher this number, the longer the
analysis time.

5.2.3 Leela settings

Leela (https://www.sjeng.org/leela.html) is an strong bot, by Gian-Carlo Pascutto. Leela saw a huge increase in strength following
Google/Deepming publication in Nature, and in 2016 became the strongest Go bot free to download and use.
It fact, Leela is what prompted me to start GoReviewPartner.
Leela is dan level on all sort of hardware, with or without GPU. Leela can play with on 9x9, 13x13 and 19x19 boards, with komi values of 7.5,
6.5 and 0 (preferred komi is 7.5), with and without handicap. So if you are a kyu player with a modest computer or laptop, then you should
consider using Leela.
Version 0.11 is supported.
Some of the parameters you may want to add are:

--gtp in fact, you must add this parameter, as it tells Leela to run in GTP mode
--noponder pondering is not necessary during the analysis, so better to disable it
--playouts 10000 (or any other value) to provide a play-outs limit. The more play-outs, the stronger Leela becomes, yes, but it does not
scale directly (two times more play-outs won't make Leela two times stronger). But more play-outs will make Leela provide more
variations, and deeper variations.

Leela speciﬁc settings are:

Time per move: is how you tell Leela how many seconds maximum it should spend thinking on each move. You can leave this setting
empty, or set to 0, to let Leela decides by herself.

5.2.4 Ray settings

Ray (https://github.com/zakki/ray) is a strong bot, by Yuki Kobayashi, distributed under BSD License. The latest versions of Ray, RLO now makes
use of Leela Zero type of weights ﬁle, including the ELF weights.
Version rlo-0.2.1 is supported.
Some of the parameters you may want to add are:

--no-gpu indicates to Ray that no GPU should be used. Note that Ray is very weak without GPU, you may as well use Leela instead...
--const-time (ex: --const-time 20) is how you tell Ray how many seconds it should spend thinking on each move
--playout (ex: --playout 10000 any other value) to provide a play-outs limit

When started for the ﬁrst time, the OpenCL tuner will run to optimize your GPU running parameters, so the analysis of the ﬁrst move may takes
several minutes to complete.

5.2.5 Leela Zero settings

Leela Zero (https://github.com/gcp/leela-zero) is a project initiated by Gian-Carlo Pascutto, which aims at reimplementing the system described
in the Alpha Go Zero paper "Mastering the Game of Go without Human Knowledge". It is a collaborative project, under the GPL 3.0 license.
This bot is in permanent process of learning to play by playing against itself. It is now the stronger bot available for free, even beating pro
players at handicap games. You are encouraged to contribute to this project by sharing your computer power.
Leela Zero is training on 19x19 board , using komi at 7.5, no handicap and Chinese rule set, so Leela Zero should be you ﬁrst choice to review
games with those conditions if your computer can run it.
Some of the parameters you may want to add are:

--gtp in fact, you must add this parameter, as it tells Leela Zero to run in GTP mode
--weights (ex: --weights weights.txt) in fact, you must add this parameter, it indicates which version of Leela Zero be used. The
weights ﬁle address is provided relative to the executable address. So the easy way is to place that ﬁle in the same folder as Leela Zero
--noponder pondering is not necessary during the analysis, so better to disable it
--playouts 10000 (or any other value) to provide a play-outs limit. The more play-outs, the stronger Leela Zero becomes, yes, but it does
not scale directly (two times more play-outs won't make Leela Zero two times stronger). But more play-outs will make Leela Zero provide
more variations, and deeper variations.

Leela Zero speciﬁc settings are:

Time per move: is how you tell Leela Zero how many seconds it should spend thinking on each move. You can leave this setting empty,
or set to 0, to let Leela Zero decide by herself.

6 Running analysis

Running the analysis is a very straightforward process:

Select a SGF ﬁle
Select a bot
Select a game tree variation
Select an analysis range (moves & color)
Run the analysis

Selection of SGF is made from the main panel, either from a SGF on your computer (press the Open a SGF ﬁle for analysis button) of either
from a on-line SGF (press the Download a SGF ﬁle for analysis button). See the Main panel and software overview section for more
information.
If you choose to download the SGF ﬁle directly from the network, you will be asked to write or paste the URL into that pop-up, then press the

Get button:

GRP will then let you select the analysis parameters:

Bot to use for the analysis will display the bots and proﬁles currently conﬁgured (if no command was provided for a bot, it won't be listed).
Select a variation to be analyzed let you choose which line of play to follow for the analysis. Typically, a game record SGF ﬁle only contains
one variation, but if a move was undo-ed during the game, this may have created a second branch. Pay attention to the number of moves for
each branch to decide what branch to analyze. Other branches will be removed from the RSGF tree, to avoid confusion with the bot new
variations.
Select moves to be analyzed let you chose the range of moves to analyze. You can analyze all of them, or only a subset of them. One or
more move intervals can be indicated (ex: 10-20, 40,50-51,63,67).
Select colors to be analyzed let you chose which player's move to be analyzed. It is strongly advised to analyze both Black and White
every-time, as this is necessary to produce delta graphs.
Conﬁrm the value of komi let you double check and adjust the komi if necessary. By default, GRP will select the komi value from the SGF ﬁle.
However, sometime this information is missing in the SGF ﬁle (GRP will report it as 0), sometime, the value is reported incorrectly (e.g. 750
instead of 7.5) and that would confuse the bot. So correct that value if necessary.
Stop the analysis if the bot resigns allows stopping automatically the analysis when the bot would resign.
When this is done, just press Start button to start the analysis:
The indicated remaining time is an approximation only. After the analysis of the ﬁrst move is completed, GRP will propose to directly open the
RSGF ﬁle in review mode:

You can save the review for later if you want. The RSGF ﬁle will have been saved right next to your original SGF ﬁle, with the same name,
except for the ﬁle extension.

7 Resuming an analysis

If for some reason, you had to stop the analysis of one game (laptop short of battery, or computer crash) there is a possibility to resume the
analysis.
Press the Open a SGF ﬁle for analysis button from the main panel, as you would do to start the analysis of a new game. But then, tell the ﬁle
picker you are want to select a RSGF ﬁle instead of a SGF ﬁle:

Next select, the RSGF ﬁle that was produced before the analysis was interrupted. GRP will take note of that, and the analysis parameter panel
will be a bit diﬀerent:

GRP will now perform the analysis on the tree main variation only (this cannot be changed), and GRP is now asking what to do with the
variations created during the ﬁrst analysis run. You have two choices:

Keep existing variations: the moves with existing variations are not analyzed again, so the analyze is skipped for those moves. But the
variations and data stay in the RSGF ﬁle. This is what to use when resuming an analysis to complete it.
Replace existing variations: the former variations/data will be discarded and replaced by new ones. This is useful for this use case: You
can ﬁrst analyze a game with a fast proﬁle to see the win rate graph and get an idea where you went wrong. Then you can rerun the
analyze on a limited range of moves (for example only middle game, or the area where the win rate dropped a lot) using the slow proﬁle to
have a deeper analysis on those moves only. After that, the RSGF contains analysis for all moves, but detailed analysis only on the limited
range for the second analysis run.

8 Data

During the analysis, GRP will have collected, for each position, alternative moves and variations. And for all those moves, GRP is usually able to
extract some meaningful data. Here is an overview of those data and their meaning.

8.1 Win rate (WR)

Win rate, which means "chance of winning" indicates how conﬁdent a bot is that it would win the game from that position. Most bots would
resign if their win rate drops bellow 15%

Leela, Ray and AQ are inspired from the ﬁrst version of AlphaGo, and estimate their win rate as a combined function of their Value Network
win rate and Monte Carlo win rate (see below).
Leela Zero is inspired from AlphaGo Zero, and directly uses her Value Network win rate as win rate.
GnuGo does not provide win rate.
8.2 Value Network win rate (VN)

Value Network win rate is the "chance of winning" of a given board position, as provided by a neural network that has been trained for this
purpose. Value Network neural networks are trained for a given komi and a given handicap, and so are only capable to evaluate correctly a
position for a game played in similar conditions. For that reason, it's better to use the bots for analysis of game with same komi and handicap.
This is especially important for Leela Zero because she only relies on this value.

GnuGo does not provide Value Network win rate.
8.3 Monte Carlo win rate (MC)

Monte Carlo win rate is the "chance of winning" of a given board position, as estimated by playing out that game randomly hundreds of times.
This estimation is usually pretty bad at the beginning of the game, and gets more and more accurate as the game progresses. It complements
the Value Network win rate, and is useful for games where the komi and handicap diﬀer from what the Value Network neural network was
trained for.
GnuGo does not provide Monte Carlo win rate.

8.4 Policy Network value (PN)

Policy Network is a value that indicates what would be the most probable next move for a given board position. This data is provided by a
dedicated neural network trained from human games (for Leela and AQ) or from self play games (Leela Zero and Ray-RLO). Policy Network
values is what is used to draw the heat map.
GnuGo does not provide Policy Network value.

8.5 Playouts (PYO)

Play-outs, for one variation, indicates how many games where simulated to evaluate that variation. The higher the number of play-outs, the
more conﬁdent the bot will be about its evaluation.
GnuGo does not provide Play-outs numbers.

8.6 Score estimation

Some bots can also provide a score estimation. It is usually not accurate at all unless the game is already in yose.

9 Game review

To review a RSGF ﬁle, open it from the main panel Open a RSGF ﬁle for review button. This will open a double board interface:

9.1 Interface overview
The top-left bar provides the usual commands to navigate the RSGF ﬁle, move by move, or jumping 10 moves, or going directly to the
beginning/end of the game. Your keyboard Left and Right keys can be used as well.
Then, the interface is divided in two panels, and each panel contains a number of tabs. Both panels at least contains one Actual game
tab and one Analysis tab:

The Actual game tabs are there for you check out what was played in actual game. See detailed description below.
The Analysis tabs are there for you to check the alternative lines of play as proposed by the bot. See detailed description below.

Actual game and Analysis tabs' gobans indicate the last played stone as a circle marked stone
It it possible to open additionnal gobans by clicking on one of the two + tabs. This will create new tabs, containing gobans that can be
used to try out other variations, and play againts bots.
The right side panel display the analysis data. Those data can be displayed either as textual form ("Comments panel") either as tabular
form ("Table panel").
The top-right bar provides commands to display the graphs and switch between "Table" and "Comments" mode for displaying data.
At the bottom is a status bar that will display informations on how to use the interface.

The sizes allocated to the two tabs and the right side panel can be adjusted manually with the mouse pointer. You can totally hide the left side
tabs if you don't need them and ﬁnd it distracting:

9.2 Comments panel

The right side panel is used to display informations on the current position:

9.3 Actual game tabs

The Actual game tabs are there for you check out what was played in actual game. You will ﬁnd one variation, that will be labelled "A" that
indicate where the game move whas played:

Move you mouse pointer over that "A", and the following move will be displayed with each move numbered. If you want to follow the sequence
move my move, then you can use your mouse scrolling wheel, it will display the moves one by one. Your keyboard Up and Down keys can be
used as well.

The Actual game tabs can also be used to display maps built by the bot during the analysis. There are 3 type of maps, but not all bots support
them. Use the Maps drow down menu to select what map to display, and press the Show button to display it on the goban.

Territories: indicates what intersections on the board the bot considers to be black or white territories. This map is provided only by GnuGo.
Inﬂuence: indicates what intersections on the board the bot considers to be under black or white inﬂuence. This map is provided only by
GnuGo and Leela.
Heatmap: indicates the Policy Network values for each intersections, with higher values in bright red. High Policy Network values indicate
the locations the bots is considering to play "at ﬁrst sight". With more thinking (playouts) the bot may discard those moves and play
elsewhere. This map is provided only by Leela and Leela Zero.

Example of inﬂuence map:

Example of heatmap:

9.4 Analysis tabs

On the Analysis tabs' gobans are the diﬀerent variations available for this game position. The variations are the variations provided by the bot,
with A being the best variation (the one the bot would choose), then B, C... second and third best variation, and so on.

If no variation is available, this could be because:

that move was not part of the moves analyzed
the bot would chose to resign or pass for that move.

The variations may have diﬀerent colors depending on the Blue/red coloring of the variations setting. Percentages values could be used
instead of letter depending of the Labels for variations setting. See the Settings section for more information. You can use the Display drop
down menu to changet the display parameters.

Note that if the letter/percentage color is black (inside a red or blue circle) this indicates that this move was also the game actual move.
Move you mouse pointer over one of the variation, and the complete sequence of moves will be displayed with each move numbered.
Additional information for that line of play will be indicated in the in the right side panel.

If you want to follow the sequence move my move, then you can use your mouse scrolling wheel, it will display the moves one by one. Your
keyboard Up and Down keys can be used as well.

9.5 Graphs

Using the data provided at each move allows to draw some interesting graphs. Not all bots provide all types of graphs. Leela is the one oﬀering
the most graphs.

9.5.1 Win rate, Value Network win rate and Monte Carlo win rate

Those graphs consist in the successive values of win rates, from black perspective.

Click on one of the grey bars will bring to that position in the review panel. A yellow bar indicates the current position in the review.
When no bar are available, it means no data were provided, possibly because:

that move was not part of the moves analyzed
the bot would chose to resign or pass for that move
this was a "book move", taken from a joseki dictionary without performing an analysis

9.5.2 Delta graphs

By comparing the win rate (or Value Network win rate, Monte Carlo win rate) at one move (when the bot best move would be played) with the
win rate of the following move (the case when the actual game move was played), one can draw a delta graph for each color.
This is a graph that indicates by how much the bot believes it could have played better than the human player, or eventually by how much the
human player move was better than its own move. The diﬀerence between both win rate percentage value is called delta and is given in
percentage points (pp).

On a delta graph:

The grey bars follow the win rate for that color only
The red bars, on top of the win rate blue trend, indicate by how much the bot's own moves would improve the win rates. The higher the
red bars, the more the bot considers the human moves to be bad.
Inversely, The green bars, on bottom of the win rate blue trend, indicate by how much the bot own moves would decrease the win rates.
The higher the green bars, the more the bot considers the human moves to be better than its own moves.

When no grey bar is available, it means no data were provided by the bot, possibly because:

that move or the following move was not part of the moves analyzed,
the bot would chose to resign or pass for that move or the following move,
this move or the following move was a "book move".

So red means margin for improvement, and green means better than the bot, from the bot's point of view.
On the delta graph above:

One can see that move 113 could be considered a big blunder for black, with a delta of -21.5pp
At move 117, black missed the opportunity to re-balance the game, and could be considered as the loosing move.

Here is the corresponding white comparison graph:

One can see that:

White blundered at move 96
White also blundered at move 116, but hopefully for White, Black missed that opportunity as we have seen above already.

Here is the actual game position:

Apparently, Leela believes Black should tenuki and break into White center territory.
Delta graphs are a powerful tool to improve.

9.5.3 Table

You can replace the comments by a table by pressing the Table button in the top-right bar:

The table is designed to present the user with the maximum of information, in a very condensed way. It's the opposite of the (very verbose)
comments panel. After you get used to reviewing your games with GRP, you will probably prefer using the table instead of the comments.
Somehow, the table is more for "hardcore gamers" :)

The ﬁrst line indicates the move number and win rates for black and white.
The second and third line indicates the game move and bot move.
The ﬁfth line indicates the deltas for win rate, Value Network win rate and Monte Carlo win rate.
Finally, there is a table with the data available for each variations. Bringing the mouse over the table will display the variations.

The table only uses acronymes to save on space (e.g. MC for Monte Carlo). If you are not sure about the meaning of one of them, bring your
mouse pointer over it to get an explanation in the status bar.
Press the Comment button to switch back to comments panel.
9.5.4 Opening a move for interactive play

During the game review, you might want to try out your own variations against the bot. This is made possible by pressing one of the + tabs.
This will open the game position in an additionnal tab, where you are free to manually try other lines of play. The Undo button allows to cancel
the last move played.

You can ask the bot to play with you along the variation, and then check its answers to your diﬀerent variations.

If a bot is not in the list, it could be because:

that bot does not support that size of Goban,
no command line was provided for that bot,
the bot failed during launching, then you should double check its command line and parameters,
a bot can be disabled if you play a move it considers illegal.

The diﬀerent Actions to control the bots are:

Do nothing: the default setting. The bot does not answer your move.
Play one move: the bot will play the next move based one which turn it is (Black or White)
Play as white: the bot will answer as white every time you play one move as black
Play as black: the bot will answer as black every time you play one move as white
Let the bot take both sides and play against itself: The bot plays against itself starting from that position. The have the bot stop
playing, select Do nothing again.
Ask the bot for a quick evaluation: The bot provides a quick evaluation on the variation you played, typically the win rate

While the bot is thinking for a move, the interface will be locked, the goban outline appears in red. There is no way to abort the bot while it is
thinking, you have to wait for it to come up with its move.
In self play mode, to stop the bot, select Do nothing again.

There is no limit to the number of new tab you can open. Tabs can be closed by pressing the X button in the top right of the tab:

9.6 Highlighting stones or intersection

One all gobans (this is also available in Live analysis), it is possible to highlight a stone or an intesection, simply by using the mouse right click.
The stones or intersections will "shine" for a few seconds:

When is this useful? This can be used when streaming to draw viewers' attention at some special stones or intersections.
i.e. instead of saying "Playing at R7 or Q8 is possible" (or instead of using an editing tool to mark those intersections), simply right click on
them will make them very noticeable for a few seconds.

10 Live Analysis

A live analysis makes it possible to record a game or play against a bot, while, in the background, having the analysis proceeding. This is a way
to save on the analysis time, so that when the game is over, part of the analysis is already completed, and the review can start immediately.
It also has the advantage to make the result of the analysis directly available (given the bot performing the analysis is fast enough to catch up
with the game speed) which is useful during a live commentary.

10.1 Live analysis setting

Here is the setting panel for a live analysis, and the meaning for each settings:

Bot to use for analysis let you choose what bot will perform the analysis. It is probably better to select a slow proﬁle bot.
Black player and White player let you choice who is playing for black and white. You basically have three options:

Human: you will enter the move one by one for that color.
Bot used for the analysis: you want to reuse the bot performing the analysis in the background to play for that color as well
Another bot: that other bot will play for that color

Board size, Komi, Handicap stones are the usual game settings. Handicap stones have free placement.
SGF ﬁle name allows you to select where the RSGF ﬁles will be saved.
Select colors to be analyzed allows to restrict the analysis to only black or white moves.
So here are diﬀerent way to use the live analysis mode:

Human VS Human:

You can use that mode when watching a game online or at a tournament. If the bot used for analysis is faster than the players, then it
will provide you with near real time data about the on going game, like win rate, and diﬀerent possibilities for the on going moves.
You can use it when playing across the board, to record the game. At the end of the game, then the analysis result can be used to
discuss the game with your opponent and check out your respective mistakes.
It can also be used when reading a game commentary: you enter the moves as you read the commentary, and play the variations in
the open position mode. Then you can stop at diﬀerent moves and check the bot own opinion against the commenter opinion.
Of course, the bot opinion is relevant only if the bot is stronger than the human players.

Human VS Bot: This is mainly for training. You play the bot, and at the end of the game, you review the analysis. You can also stop mid
game and check the analysis of the ﬁrst part of the game.

You can have the bot playing with you being diﬀerent from the bot used for analysis. Then it makes sense to have this bot weaker
than the bot performing the analysis:

You can use the slow proﬁle version of a bot for analysis, and the fast proﬁle version of that same bot to play against you.
If your level is DDK (11 kyu or weaker) then you can play against GnuGo, and have Leela performing the analysis, and point out
your mistakes and how to avoid them, as well as GnuGo's mistakes and how to exploit them.
You could also set Leela Zero with an old weights ﬁle as her fast proﬁle and using the latest weights ﬁle for her slow proﬁle for
the analysis.

You can set the bot playing with you to be the same as the bot used for analysis. This is interesting to save on computing, because
the bot analysis is performed at the same time it is choosing its next move. But in that case, you will have to wait for the bot to ﬁnish
analysing your last move before it starts thinking about its next move. Also, because it plays and analyze at the same time, the deltas
for its moves will all be at zero (because it considers its move the best moves).

Bot VS Bot: this is a possibility, but I am not sure for what use case...

When a bot is selected as black or white, that is not the same as the bot used for analysis, or when black and white are played by diﬀerent
bots, then an additional option appears No overlap thinking time. This setting tells GRP to make sure the bots are no thinking at the same
time, so that your computer processing power (CPU, GPU, RAM) does not becomes a shared resource that both bots are competing for.

Depending of the situation, this option will be or won't be useful:

If the bots have a limited number of play-outs, then it is not really necessary
If one bot run on CPU and the other one on GPU, then it is not that necessary
If one of the bots is ran across the network from another computer, then it is not really necessary
If the bot has a limited thinking time, then you should use it

Generally speaking, it is best to use play-outs limits for your bots. You can also set the process of the bot performing the analysis to run at low
priority, so that it won't make your opponent slower.
Press the Start button to start the Live analysis. You will be asked to ﬁrst place the handicap stones ﬁrst, if any.

10.2 Playing

Here is the live analysis panels, the ﬁrst one is Human VS Bot, the second is Bot VS Bot:

Game section provides some basic information on the current game. If it is a Bot VS Bot game, there will be a Pause/Resume button to pause
the game. If it is a Human VS Human game, or Human VS Bot game, there will be an Undo button available as well as a Pass button.
Analysis section provides some basic information on the background analysis. There is an Open position button available at any time to try
out variations. And when the analysis for the 2 ﬁrst moves is completed, a Start review button will appear that starts the usual review panel
for this game. Of course, only the moves already analyzed will be available, but the review panel will update itself automatically as the analysis
progresses.
The same way you can open new gobans during review for interactive play, new gobans can be opened during live play, by pressing the + tab.
The features are the same:

11 Convert RSGF ﬁle to SGF ﬁle

RSGF is a SGF ﬁle that contain non standard properties. Such properties are used to save win rate, value network win rate, number of play-outs
and so on. A standard SGF editor can open a RSGF ﬁle but won't be able to interpret those properties.
Converting a RSGF ﬁle to a SGF will put all those data into a SGF comments for each moves and variations, making it possible to review those
data with a normal SGF editor. The resulting SGF ﬁle will be bigger.

12 Convert RSGF ﬁle to CSV ﬁle

GRP oﬀers a basic tool to convert RSGF ﬁles into CSV (Comma Separated Values) ﬁles. CVS ﬁles allow to record tabular data, and can be
opened with Excel or LibreOﬃce. The CVS ﬁle will contains data like win rates for the game:

13 Advanced uses

It is somehow possible to use GRP as a command line tool, to automatize the analysis. This is only possible when running directly from the
Python sources.
Each bot comes with is own Python ﬁle:

aq_analysis.py for AQ
leela_analysis.py for Leela
gnugo_analysis.py for GnuGo
ray_analysis.py for Ray
leela_zero_analysis.py for Leela Zero
Those python scripts can be used as follow:

Usage: python bot_analysis.py [--range=<range>] [--color=both] [--komi=<komi>] [--variation=<variation>] [--profil=<fast|slow>] [--no-gui] <sgf file1> <sgf file2> <sgf file3>

Here are a few examples:

#Analysis of mygame.sgf, first variation, using Leela (slow profile), all moves, both colors, komi as indicated by the SGF file:
python leela_analysis.py --profile=slow mygame.sgf

#Same as above, the three SGF files will be analyzed, and using Leela fast profile:
python leela_analysis.py --profile=fast mygame1.sgf mygame2.sgf mygame3.sgf

#Same as above, but all the SGF files will be analyzed, and the analysis will be performed by Ray:
python ray_analysis.py *.sgf

#Analysis of black moves only:
python ray_analysis.py --color=black mygame.sgf

#Analysis of moves 10 to 20, 44, 46 and 100 to 110 by AQ:
python aq_analysis.py --range="10-20, 44,46, 100-110" mygame.sgf

#Analysis of variation 3, with setting the komi at 7.5 (some SGF files do not include komi):
python aq_analysis.py --variation=3 --komi=7.5 mygame.sgf 

If the --no-gui parameter is provided, GRP will be running only in the terminal, no graphical interface.
If no --proﬁle parameter is provided, GRP will be using the slow proﬁle.
The conversion from RSGF to SGF or CSV can also be done in command line:

python r2sgf.py game1.sgf
python r2csv.py *.sgf

Those commands can be ran from the terminal, or from a bash script or batch script.




